The policeman walked down the street confidently and looked at everything around him. The impressive scene happened often and was not for show. There were few spectators who watched because they did not come. It was almost 10 o’clock at night, but the wind felt chilly and rainy. The streets were almost empty because of the cold and wind. The officer tried doors as he walked and twirled his club. He moved with many skillful motions and looked around the busy street. His strong body and confident walk made him look like a good protector. The area had quiet days and busy nights. People woke up early and started their work. Sometimes you can see the lights of a cigar store and an all-night diner. Most of the doors belong to businesses that have been closed for a long time. The policeman walked on a certain block, and then he suddenly slowed down. A man leaned in the doorway of a dark hardware store. He had an unlit cigar in his mouth and looked around. As the policeman walked toward him, the man quickly spoke up and looked serious. "It is okay, officer," he said, trying to make him feel better. "I am waiting for a friend and I feel excited about it." It’s an appointment that someone made twenty years ago and it is important. It sounds a little funny to you, and that is okay. I can explain it to you if you want to be sure it is clear. A long time ago, there was a restaurant where this store is now. It was called “Big Joe” Brady’s restaurant and many people loved it. "Five years ago, the policeman said something important about the past." It was taken down, and then they started to clean the area. The man stood in the doorway and struck a match. He lit his cigar because he wanted to smoke. The light showed a pale face with a strong jaw and sharp eyes. There was a small white scar near his right eyebrow. His scarfpin had a large diamond that was set in a strange way. "Twenty years ago tonight, the man said he ate at ‘Big Joe’ Brady’s. He was with Jimmy Wells, his best friend, and the best guy ever." He and I grew up here in New York, like two brothers. We spent our days playing and learning together as friends. I was eighteen and Jimmy was twenty years old. The next morning, I planned to go to the West to find my fortune. You could not pull Jimmy out of New York. He believed it was the best place. We agreed that night to meet here again in twenty years. We promised to come back no matter where we lived or how far we traveled. We thought that in twenty years, we should understand our futures and have money. We wanted to know what life would be like and what we would achieve. "It sounds very interesting," the policeman said with a smile. "It seems to me that a long time passes between our meetings." Haven't you received any message from your friend since you left? "Well, yes, we wrote to each other for a while," the other person said. "But after one or two years, we lost touch with each other." The West is a big idea, so I kept working hard on it. I believe Jimmy will meet me here if he is alive. He always was the truest and most loyal friend in the world. He will always remember this moment because it is very important to him. I traveled a long way to stand at this door tonight, and it is worth it. I hope my old partner comes here too. The waiting man took out a nice watch, and it had small diamonds on it. "It is three minutes to ten, and he tells everyone." It was ten o’clock when we said goodbye at the restaurant door. "You did well in the West and everyone is happy about it." The policeman asked her a question and she answered him quickly. "Of course! I agree and I think that sounds great." I hope Jimmy did as well as he could. He was a slow thinker, but he was a good friend. I have had to compete with very smart people to get my money. A man finds a rhythm in New York City. He walks and dances happily on the street. People watch him, and they smile because he enjoys himself. The city feels alive, and he loves the energy around him. "It takes the West to make him strong and sharp for challenges." The policeman twirled his club and took a few steps forward. I am going to leave now because I have things to do. I hope your friend comes back soon and is okay. Are you going to end his time right away? "I really should not say that because it is not true." "Then the other person said something." "I will give him at least thirty minutes to arrive." If Jimmy is alive, he will come here by that time. Goodbye, officer. I will see you again later. "Good night, sir," the policeman said as he walked along his path. He checked doors and continued his patrol because it was his job. A light, cold rain fell and the wind blew steadily now. The few foot passengers in that area walked sadly and quietly. They had their coat collars turned up and their hands in their pockets. The man stood in the door of the hardware store. He traveled a thousand miles for an appointment. He felt uncertain and nearly silly about waiting. He waited for his old friend and smoked his cigar. He waited for about twenty minutes. Then a tall man in a long coat hurried across the street. The man's collar was turned up to his ears because it was cold. He went straight to the man who was waiting for him. "Is it really you, Bob? I am happy to see you." He asked with doubt and wanted to know more because he felt uncertain. "Are you there, Jimmy Wells? I am glad to see you." The man cried out when he stood in the door. "Please help me understand my feelings and what I should do next." The new arrival shouted happily and held the other’s hands tightly. "It's Bob, and I am sure about that." I was sure I would find you here because you are still alive. "I see you are surprised and maybe a little confused." Twenty years is a very long time and many things can change. The old restaurant is gone now, Bob. I wish it had stayed open, so we could eat there again. "How did the West treat you, old man, and what do you think about it?" Bully gave me everything I asked for, and I appreciate it very much. You have changed a lot, Jimmy, and I can see it. I never thought you were so tall, but now I see you are. "Oh, I grew a little after I turned twenty." "Are you doing well in New York, Jimmy, and enjoying your time there?" "It is moderate and not very strong. It is okay but not too much." I work in one of the city departments and I like my job. "Come on, Bob. We will go to a place I know and talk about old times." The two men walked up the street together and held each other’s arms. The man from the West was very proud because he had success. He began to tell the story of his career. The other person wore his overcoat and listened with interest. A drug store stood at the corner and it shined with bright electric lights. When they entered the bright light, they both turned to look at each other. The man from the West stopped suddenly and let go of his arm. “You're not Jimmy Wells,” he said quickly and with anger. Twenty years is a long time, but it is not enough to change a man’s nose from a Roman shape to a pug shape. "It can change a good man into a bad man," said the tall man. “You have been under arrest for ten minutes, ‘Silky’ Bob, and now you need to understand.” Chicago thinks you might have come our way, and it wants to talk with you. Are you going quietly and carefully because it seems important? That idea is smart and makes sense for us. Now, before we go to the station, I have a note for you. You can read it here by the window. It comes from Patrolman Wells, and he is a police officer. The man from the West took the small piece of paper and opened it carefully. His hand was steady when he started to read, but it shook a little when he finished. The note was short and simple, so it was easy to read. Bob arrived at the place on time, and he was ready to meet. When you struck the match and lit your cigar, I saw a face. It was the face of the man wanted in Chicago. I could not do it myself, so I asked a man in plain clothes to help. Jimmy is a boy who likes to play games and read books. He enjoys spending time with his friends and doing fun activities together.