The policeman walked up the street. He looked impressive as he moved. The impressiveness was real and not for show. Few people watched it. The clock shows almost 10 o’clock at night. Cold winds blow through the empty streets. The streets feel quiet and a bit sad. Rain smells are in the air too. The officer walks and tries the doors. He twirls his club carefully. He looks down the busy street. His strong form shows he protects the peace. The area wakes up early each day. Now and then, you see the lights of a cigar store. You also see the lights of a lunch counter. Most doors belong to closed businesses. When the policeman walked, he suddenly slowed down. A man leans in the doorway of a dark store. He has a cigar in his mouth. The policeman walked up to him. The man spoke quickly. "It is okay, officer," he said to make him feel better. I wait for my friend. It is an appointment from twenty years ago. Does it sound funny to you? I can explain this. You can ask if you want. A long time ago, there was a restaurant here. It was called 'Big Joe' Brady's restaurant. "Five years ago, the policeman said something." "It got taken down then." The man stands in the doorway. He strikes a match and lights his cigar. The light showed a pale face with a strong jaw. His eyes were keen, and he had a small white scar. The scar was near his right eyebrow. His scarf pin is a big diamond. It is set strangely. "Twenty years ago, I had dinner at Big Joe Brady’s. I was with my best friend, Jimmy Wells. He was the best guy in the world." He and I grew up here in New York. We are like brothers. We lived together and shared many moments. I was eighteen. Jimmy was twenty. The next morning, I start my journey to the West. I want to find my fortune there. You could not take Jimmy out of New York. He thought it was the best place. We agreed that night to meet here again in twenty years. We said we would come, no matter our conditions. We would come from any distance to meet. In twenty years, we want to know our future. We hope each of us has good luck then. We wish for our dreams to be real. "It sounds interesting," the policeman said. It seems there is a long time between meetings. "Did you not hear from your friend since you left?" "Yes, we wrote letters for some time," said the other. "But after one or two years, we lost touch." The West is a big place. I kept moving around it. I know Jimmy will meet me here if he is alive. He always is the best friend in the world. He will always remember this moment. I came a long way to stand in this door. It is worth it if my old partner shows up. The man waits and takes out a nice watch. The watch has small diamonds on it. "It is three minutes to ten," he said. It was ten o’clock when we left the restaurant door. "You did very well out West, did you not?" "the policeman asked." Sure! Here's the simplified sentence:

"You are right!" I hope Jimmy did half as well. He was a slow worker. He was a nice guy too. I must compete with very smart people to get my pile. A man finds his rhythm in New York. The West helps him become sharper and stronger. The policeman twirled his club. He took a step forward. "I am going now." I hope your friend feels better soon. Are you going to call time on him now? I will not say that. "She spoke to the others." “I will give him thirty minutes or more.” Jimmy is alive on earth. He will be here by that time. "Goodbye, officer." "Good night, sir," said the policeman. He walked along his area. He tried doors as he moved. A cold drizzle falls now. The wind rises from gentle puffs to a strong blow. The few people walked quickly in that area. They felt sad and quiet. Their coat collars were up and their hands were in pockets. A man stands at the door of a store. He comes from far away to meet an old friend. He feels uncertain and waits while smoking a cigar. He waited for about twenty minutes. A tall man hurried across the street. He wore a long coat with his collar up. He goes straight to the man who waits. "Is that you, Bob?" He asked with doubt. "Is that you, Jimmy?" The man cried at the door. "Please help me!" The new arrival held the other person's hands tightly. "It is Bob, that is certain." I was sure I would find you here. You were still alive. "Wow, this is surprising and interesting!" Twenty years is a very long time. The old restaurant is gone. I wish it had stayed. We could eat dinner there again. How does the West treat you, old man? "Bully has given me everything that I asked for." You have changed a lot, Jimmy. I never thought you were so tall. You are two or three inches taller. "Oh, I grew a little after I turned twenty." "Are you doing well in New York, Jimmy?" It is okay. It is not too much. I work in a city department. Come on, Bob. We will go to a place I know. We can have a long talk about old times. The two men walk up the street, holding hands. The man from the West was very proud of his success. He began to tell the story of his career. The other man wore an overcoat. He listened with great interest. A drug store stood at the corner. It was bright with electric lights. When they entered the bright light, they looked at each other. The man from the West stops suddenly. He lets go of his arm. "You are not Jimmy Wells," he said sharply. Twenty years is a long time. It is not long enough to change a nose. A nose cannot change from Roman to pug. "It can change a good man into a bad one," said the tall man. "You are under arrest for ten minutes, 'Silky' Bob." Chicago thinks you dropped by. She sends us a message. She wants to talk with you. Are you going quietly? That is a smart idea. We are going to the station now. Here is a note for you. You can read it here by the window. It comes from Patrolman Wells. The man from the West opened the small piece of paper. He took it from someone. His hand is steady when he begins to read. It trembles a little when he finishes. The note was short and to the point. Bob was at the right place. He was on time. When you struck the match, I saw your cigar. It showed the man's face. He was wanted in Chicago. I could not do it alone. I asked a plain clothes man to help. Jimmy.