The policeman walks along the avenue with confidence. The impressiveness happened often and was not for show. There were only a few spectators. The time was almost 10 o’clock at night. Chilly winds blew through the empty streets. The air smelled like rain and made it cold. The officer walks down the street, trying doors as he goes. He spins his club with skillful movements. He looks around the busy street. His strong body and confident walk make him look like a protector. The area woke up early every day. Sometimes you see the lights of a cigar store or a late-night lunch. Most of the doors belong to closed businesses. The policeman walks down a block. He suddenly slows his walk. A man leaned in the doorway of a dark hardware store. He had an unlit cigar in his mouth. The policeman walked up to him. The man spoke quickly. "It's okay, officer," he said in a calm way. "I wait for a friend." It is an appointment from twenty years ago. "It sounds a bit funny to you, right?" I can explain if you want to be sure. A long time ago, there was a restaurant. It was called "Big Joe" Brady’s restaurant. This restaurant stood where the store is now. "Five years ago, the policeman said something." "It was taken down at that time." The man stands in the doorway. He strikes a match. He lights his cigar. The light showed a pale face with a square jaw. His eyes are keen and sharp. There is a little white scar near his right eyebrow. His scarfpin was big. It had a diamond that looked strange. "Twenty years ago tonight, I ate here with Jimmy Wells. He was my best friend and a great guy." He and I grow up here in New York. We are like two brothers. We spend time together every day. I was eighteen. Jimmy was twenty. The next morning, I start my journey to the West. I want to find my fortune there. You could not pull Jimmy out of New York. He thinks it is the best place in the world. We agreed that night to meet again in twenty years. We said this no matter our conditions or how far we come. We thought that in twenty years we will plan our lives. We also believe we will have money and success. "It sounds interesting," the policeman said. "It seems to me that we wait a long time between meetings." "Did you not hear from your friend since you left?" "Yes, we wrote to each other for a time," said the other. "But after one or two years, we stopped talking to each other." The West is a big idea. I worked hard on it every day. I know Jimmy will meet me here if he is alive. He was always a true friend to me. He will always remember. I traveled a long way to stand here tonight. It is worth it if my old partner arrives. The waiting man took out a nice watch. It had small diamonds on its lid. “It is three minutes to ten,” he said. "It was ten o’clock when we said goodbye at the restaurant." "You did well out West, didn't you?" “asked the policeman.” "You can be sure of that!" I hope Jimmy did as well as this. He was a slow worker. He was a good man too. I had to compete with very smart people. I wanted to win my pile. A man finds his place in New York. It takes the West to make him sharp. The policeman spun his club. He took one or two steps forward. "I am going now." I hope your friend comes back safely. Are you going to call time on him soon? "I really do not think so." "said the other." "I will give him at least thirty minutes." Jimmy is alive on earth. He will be here by that time. Goodbye, officer. I hope you have a nice day. “Good night, sir,” said the policeman. He walks along his beat. He tries doors as he goes. A fine, cold rain falls now. The wind rises from soft puffs to a steady blow. The few people walking in that area hurry silently. They pull up their coat collars and put their hands in their pockets. A man stands at the door of a hardware store. He comes a long way to meet an old friend. He feels uncertain about this meeting. He smokes his cigar and waits quietly. He waited for about twenty minutes. Then a tall man hurried over. The man wore a long coat with the collar turned up. He went straight to the man who waited. "Is that really you, Bob?" He asked with doubt. "Is that you, Jimmy?" The man cried from the door. "That is sweet!" The new person shouted. He took both of their hands. “It’s Bob, I am sure of it.” I was sure I would find you here. I thought you were still alive. I am surprised and happy. Twenty years feels like a long time. The old restaurant is gone. I wish it lasted longer. We could have dinner there again. How does the West treat you, old man? "Bully has given me everything I wanted." You change a lot, Jimmy. I never thought you were two or three inches taller. "Oh, I grew a little after I turned twenty." "Are you doing well in New York, Jimmy?" "Somewhat." I work in a city department. Come on, Bob. We will go to a place I know. We can have a long talk about good times. The two men walk up the street. They hold each other's arms. The man from the West had success. His pride grew large. He started to tell the story of his career. The other person wore his big coat. He listened with interest. A drug store stood at the corner. It was bright with electric lights. When they entered the bright light, they turned to look at each other. The man from the West stopped suddenly. He let go of his arm. "You are not Jimmy Wells," he said sharply. Twenty years is a long time. It is not enough to change a man's nose. A Roman nose stays the same, not like a pug's. "It sometimes changes a good man to a bad man," said the tall man. "You are under arrest for ten minutes, 'Silky' Bob." Chicago thinks you came by and wants to talk with you. Are you going quietly now? That is a smart idea. Now, before we go to the station, I have a note for you. You can read it here by the window. It comes from Patrolman Wells. The man from the West opened the small piece of paper. Someone gave it to him. His hand is steady when he starts to read. It shakes a little when he finishes. The note is very short. Bob was at the right place. He was there on time. When you struck the match to light your cigar, I saw a man. He was the man wanted in Chicago. I could not do it alone. I asked a man in plain clothes to help. Jimmy.