Anne Lindbergh was going to have a baby. She and her husband, Charles, liked to fly. They flew a long way over many places. They were very famous. They were very happy. But then something bad happened. Their first baby, Charles, was taken from their house. The baby was found dead later. A man named Bruno Richard Hauptmann was punished for this. Many people wrote about this in the newspapers. They called it "the Crime of the Century." After this, it was hard for the Lindberghs to live in America. People threatened their second child. There were too many stories about them in the newspapers. So, they moved to Europe in 1935. They came back to America four years later. 

Anne Lindbergh was very sad about her first baby's death. But she and Charles had five more children. She kept flying. In 1934, she won a gold medal for her flying. She started writing to feel better. She wrote many books about flying with Charles. Her first book was "North to the Orient" in 1935. She wrote about flying to Japan and China. She wrote about meeting two Eskimo boys in Canada. They had never seen a white woman before. 

In 1938, Anne wrote "Listen! The Wind." It was about their long flight. Many people liked it. In 1940, she wrote "The Wave of the Future." She wrote it during World War Two. She said she didn't like communism or fascism. But she thought they couldn't be stopped. She hoped America wouldn't join the war. She also wrote that she thought Adolf Hitler was a great man. Many people didn't like this. She later said she was wrong about the Nazis. She stopped writing for a long time. 

Anne started writing again in 1955. She wrote "Gift from the Sea." It was about women looking for meaning in their lives. It was very popular. It sold more than one million copies. It helped many women. In the book, Anne wrote about the pressures women face. She said it was hard for women to balance everything. But they had to try. She said women had to do many things at once. She thought the answer was to spend time alone. She wrote about spending time alone on an island. She found sea shells. She made her life simpler. 

In the 1970s, Anne wrote more books. She wrote about the good and bad things in her life. She wrote about the joy of flying. She also wrote about the pain of losing her baby. Charles died in 1974. The next year, readers of a magazine voted Anne one of the most liked women in the world. In 1996, Anne was honored for being a great pilot. She died in 2001. She was 94 years old. Many people liked how she lived her life. They liked her advice in her books. She said, "If you surrender completely to the moments as they pass, you live more richly in those moments."