Of the Meaning of Progress

Once upon a time I taught school in the hills of Tennessee, where the
broad dark vale of the Mississippi begins to roll and crumple to greet
the Alleghanies. I was a Fisk student then, and all Fisk men thought
that Tennessee—beyond the Veil—was theirs alone, and in vacation time
they sallied forth in lusty bands to meet the county
school-commissioners. Young and happy, I too went, and I shall not soon
forget that summer, seventeen years ago.

First, there was a Teachers' Institute at the county-seat; and there
distinguished guests of the superintendent taught the teachers
fractions and spelling and other mysteries,—white teachers in the
morning, Negroes at night. A picnic now and then, and a supper, and the
rough world was softened by laughter and song. I remember how— But I
wander.

There came a day when all the teachers left the Institute and began the
hunt for schools. I learn from hearsay (for my mother was mortally
afraid of firearms) that the hunting of ducks and bears and men is
wonderfully interesting, but I am sure that the man who has never
hunted a country school has something to learn of the pleasures of the
chase. I see now the white, hot roads lazily rise and fall and wind
before me under the burning July sun; I feel the deep weariness of
heart and limb as ten, eight, six miles stretch relentlessly ahead; I
feel my heart sink heavily as I hear again and again, "Got a teacher?
Yes." So I walked on and on—horses were too expensive—until I had
wandered beyond railways, beyond stage lines, to a land of "varmints"
and rattlesnakes, where the coming of a stranger was an event, and men
lived and died in the shadow of one blue hill.

Sprinkled over hill and dale lay cabins and farmhouses, shut out from
the world by the forests and the rolling hills toward the east. There I
found at last a little school. Josie told me of it; she was a thin,
homely girl of twenty, with a dark-brown face and thick, hard hair. I
had crossed the stream at Watertown, and rested under the great
willows; then I had gone to the little cabin in the lot where Josie was
resting on her way to town. The gaunt farmer made me welcome, and
Josie, hearing my errand, told me anxiously that they wanted a school
over the hill; that but once since the war had a teacher been there;
that she herself longed to learn,—and thus she ran on, talking fast and
loud, with much earnestness and energy.

Next morning I crossed the tall round hill, lingered to look at the
blue and yellow mountains stretching toward the Carolinas, then plunged
into the wood, and came out at Josie's home. It was a dull frame
cottage with four rooms, perched just below the brow of the hill, amid
peach-trees. The father was a quiet, simple soul, calmly ignorant, with
no touch of vulgarity. The mother was different,—strong, bustling, and
energetic, with a quick, restless tongue, and an ambition to live "like
folks." There was a crowd of children. Two boys had gone away. There
remained two growing girls; a shy midget of eight; John, tall, awkward,
and eighteen; Jim, younger, quicker, and better looking; and two babies
of indefinite age. Then there was Josie herself. She seemed to be the
centre of the family: always busy at service, or at home, or
berry-picking; a little nervous and inclined to scold, like her mother,
yet faithful, too, like her father. She had about her a certain
fineness, the shadow of an unconscious moral heroism that would
willingly give all of life to make life broader, deeper, and fuller for
her and hers. I saw much of this family afterwards, and grew to love
them for their honest efforts to be decent and comfortable, and for
their knowledge of their own ignorance. There was with them no
affectation. The mother would scold the father for being so "easy";
Josie would roundly berate the boys for carelessness; and all knew that
it was a hard thing to dig a living out of a rocky side-hill.

I secured the school. The schoolhouse was a log hut, where Colonel
Wheeler used to shelter his corn. It sat in a lot behind a rail fence
and thorn bushes, near the sweetest of springs. There was an entrance
where a door once was, and within, a massive rickety fireplace; great
chinks between the logs served as windows. Furniture was scarce. A pale
blackboard crouched in the corner. My desk was made of three boards,
reinforced at critical points, and my chair, borrowed from the
landlady, had to be returned every night. Seats for the children—these
puzzled me much. The reality was rough plank benches without backs, and
at times without legs.

It was a hot morning late in July when the school opened. I trembled
when I heard the patter of little feet down the dusty road, and saw the
growing row of dark solemn faces and bright eager eyes facing me. First
came Josie and her brothers and sisters. The longing to know, to be a
student in the great school at Nashville, hovered like a star above
this child-woman amid her work and worry, and she studied doggedly.

I loved my school, and the fine faith the children had in the wisdom of
their teacher was truly marvellous. We read and spelled together, wrote
a little, picked flowers, sang, and listened to stories of the world
beyond the hill.

For two summers I lived in this little world. The ten years that follow
youth, the years when first the realization comes that life is leading
somewhere,—these were the years that passed after I left my little
school. When they were past, I came by chance once more to the walls of
Fisk University, and a sudden longing came over me to pass again beyond
the blue hill, and to see the homes and the school of other days, and
to learn how life had gone with my school-children; and I went.

Josie was dead, and the gray-haired mother said simply, "We've had a
heap of trouble since you've been away." Josie had worked night and
day—at home, then in Nashville, earning ninety dollars to furnish the
family's new house. When spring came and little sister Lizzie shamed
the family, Josie shivered and worked on, silent and wan. Then one
summer day someone married another; Josie crept to her mother like a
hurt child, and slept—and sleeps.

My log schoolhouse was gone. In its place stood Progress; and Progress,
I understand, is necessarily ugly. The crazy foundation stones still
marked the former site of my poor little cabin, and not far away, on
six weary boulders, perched a jaunty board house, perhaps twenty by
thirty feet, with three windows and a door that locked.

How shall man measure Progress there where the dark-faced Josie lies?
How many heartfuls of sorrow shall balance a bushel of wheat? How hard
a thing is life to the lowly, and yet how human and real! And all this
life and love and strife and failure,—is it the twilight of nightfall
or the flush of some faint-dawning day?
