CHAPTER III

Meanwhile, the desire to express myself grew.

The few signs I used became less and less adequate, and my failures to make myself understood were always followed by outbursts of frustration.

I felt as if invisible hands were holding me, and I made desperate efforts to free myself.

I struggled—not that struggling helped matters, but the spirit of resistance was strong within me; I usually broke down in tears and physical exhaustion.

If my mother happened to be nearby, I would creep into her arms, too miserable even to remember the cause of the storm.

After a while, the need for some means of communication became so urgent that these outbursts happened daily, sometimes hourly.

My parents were deeply grieved and confused.

We lived a long way from any school for the blind or the deaf, and it seemed unlikely that anyone would come to such an out of the way place as Tuscumbia to teach a child who was both deaf and blind.

Indeed, my friends and relatives sometimes doubted whether I could be taught.

My mother's only ray of hope came from Dickens's "American Notes." She had read his account of Laura Bridgman and remembered vaguely that she was deaf and blind, yet had been educated.

But she also remembered with a hopeless pang that Dr.

Howe, who had discovered the way to teach the deaf and blind, had been dead for many years.

His methods had probably died with him; and if they hadn’t, how was a little girl in a distant town in Alabama supposed to benefit from them?

When I was about six years old, my father heard of a well-known eye doctor in Baltimore, who had been successful in many cases that had seemed hopeless.

My parents immediately decided to take me to Baltimore to see if anything could be done for my eyes.

The journey, which I remember well, was very enjoyable.

I made friends with many people on the train.

One lady gave me a box of shells.

My father made holes in them so that I could string them, and for a long time, they kept me happy and content.

The conductor was kind, too.

Often when he made his rounds, I clung to his coat tails while he collected and punched the tickets.

His punch, which he let me play with, was a delightful toy.

Curled up in a corner of the seat, I entertained myself for hours making funny little holes in bits of cardboard.

My aunt made me a big doll out of towels.

It was the most comical, shapeless thing, this improvised doll, with no nose, mouth, ears, or eyes—nothing that even a child's imagination could turn into a face.

Curiously enough, the lack of eyes struck me more than all the other flaws combined.

I pointed this out to everyone with annoying persistence, but no one seemed able to give the doll eyes.

A bright idea, however, popped into my mind, and the problem was solved.

I tumbled off the seat and searched under it until I found my aunt's cape, which was trimmed with large beads.

I pulled off two beads and indicated to her that I wanted her to sew them onto my doll.

She raised my hand to her eyes in a questioning way, and I nodded enthusiastically.

The beads were sewn in the right place, and I couldn't contain my joy; but right after that, I lost all interest in the doll.

Throughout the entire trip, I didn't have a single fit of temper; there were so many things to keep my mind and fingers busy.

When we arrived in Baltimore, Dr. Chisholm welcomed us kindly, but he couldn't do anything.

He said, however, that I could be educated and advised my father to consult Dr. Alexander Graham Bell in Washington, who would be able to give him information about schools and teachers for deaf or blind children. 

Acting on the doctor's advice, we went immediately to Washington to see Dr. Bell, my father with a heavy heart and many doubts, while I was completely unaware of his distress, finding joy in the excitement of moving from place to place.

Child as I was, I immediately felt the tenderness and sympathy that endeared Dr. Bell to so many hearts, as his incredible achievements captured their admiration. 

He held me on his knee while I examined his watch, and he made it chime for me. 

He understood my signs, and I knew it and loved him right away.

But I did not dream that this interview would be the door through which I would pass from darkness into light, from isolation to friendship, companionship, knowledge, and love.

Dr. Bell advised my father to write to Mr. Anagnos, director of the Perkins Institution in Boston, the place where Dr.

Howe's great efforts for the blind, and asked him if he had a teacher qualified to start my education.

My father did this right away, and in a few weeks, we received a kind letter from Mr. Anagnos with the reassuring news that a teacher had been found.

This was in the summer of 1886.

But Miss Sullivan didn’t arrive until the following March.

So I came up out of Egypt and stood before Sinai, and a divine power touched my spirit and gave it sight, so that I beheld many wonders.

And from the sacred mountain, I heard a voice that said, "Knowledge is love and light and vision."

CHAPTER IV

The most important day I remember in all my life is the one when my teacher, Anne Mansfield Sullivan, came to me.

I am filled with wonder when I think about the immeasurable contrasts between the two lives that it connects.

It was the third of March, 1887, three months before I turned seven years old.

On the afternoon of that significant day, I stood on the porch, silent and expectant.

I guessed vaguely from my mother's signs and from the hurried movements around the house that something unusual was about to happen, so I went to the door and waited on the steps.

The afternoon sun filtered through the mass of honeysuckle that covered the porch and fell on my upturned face.

My fingers lingered almost unconsciously on the familiar leaves and blossoms that had just come forth to greet the sweet southern spring.

I did not know what the future held in terms of marvel or surprise for me.

Anger and bitterness had been weighing on me for weeks, and a deep fatigue followed this intense struggle.

Have you ever been at sea in a thick fog, when it felt like a solid white darkness surrounded you, and the great ship, tense and anxious, groped its way toward the shore with plummet and sounding line, while you waited with a racing heart for something to happen?

I was like that ship before my education began, only I was without a compass or sounding line, and had no way of knowing how close the harbor was. "Light! Give me light!" was the wordless cry of my soul, and the light of love shone on me in that very moment.

I felt footsteps approaching, and I reached out my hand, thinking it was my mother.

Someone took it, and I was caught up and held close in the arms of the one who had come to reveal all things to me, and, more than anything else, to love me.

The morning after my teacher arrived, she led me into her room and gave me a doll.

The little blind children at the Perkins Institution had sent it, and Laura Bridgman had dressed it; but I didn’t know this until later.

After I had played with it for a little while, Miss Sullivan slowly spelled into my hand the word "d-o-l-l." I was immediately interested in this finger play and tried to imitate it.

When I finally succeeded in making the letters correctly, I was filled with childish pleasure and pride.

Running downstairs to my mother, I held up my hand and formed the letters for "doll."

I didn’t know that I was spelling a word or even that words existed; I was just making my fingers move in a monkey-like imitation.

In the days that followed, I learned to spell in this uncomprehending way a lot of words, including "pin," "hat," "cup," and a few verbs like "sit," "stand," and "walk."

But my teacher had been with me several weeks before I understood that everything has a name.

One day, while I was playing with my new doll, Miss Sullivan put my big rag doll into my lap as well, spelled "d-o-l-l," and tried to make me understand that "d-o-l-l" applied to both.

Earlier in the day, we had had a struggle over the words "m-u-g" and "w-a-t-e-r." Miss Sullivan had tried to impress upon me that "m-u-g" is mug and that "w-a-t-e-r" is water, but I kept confusing the two.

In despair, she had dropped the subject for the time being, only to bring it up again at the first opportunity.

I became impatient with her repeated attempts and, grabbing the new doll, I threw it on the floor.

I was thrilled when I felt the pieces of the broken doll at my feet.

Neither sorrow nor regret followed my passionate outburst.

I had not loved the doll.

In the still, dark world I lived in, there was no strong feeling or tenderness.

I felt my teacher sweep the pieces to one side of the hearth, and I had a sense of satisfaction that the source of my discomfort was gone.

She brought me my hat, and I knew I was going out into the warm sunshine.

This thought, if a wordless feeling can be called a thought, made me hop and skip with joy.

We walked down the path to the well-house, drawn in by the fragrance of the honeysuckle that covered it.

Someone was drawing water, and my teacher placed my hand under the spout.

As the cool stream flowed over one hand, she spelled the word water into the other, first slowly, then quickly.

I stood still, my entire attention focused on the movements of her fingers.

Suddenly, I felt a hazy awareness of something forgotten—a thrill of returning thought; and somehow, the mystery of language was revealed to me.

I knew then that "w-a-t-e-r" meant the wonderful cool substance that was flowing over my hand.

That living word awakened my soul, gave it light, hope, joy, and set it free!

There were still barriers, it's true, but barriers that could eventually be swept away.

I left the well-house eager to learn.

Everything had a name, and each name sparked a new thought.

As we returned to the house, every object I touched seemed to vibrate with life.

That was because I saw everything with the strange, new vision that had come to me.

As I walked through the door, I remembered the doll I had broken.

I felt my way to the fireplace and picked up the pieces.

I tried in vain to put them back together.

Then my eyes filled with tears; for I realized what I had done, and for the first time, I felt regret and sadness.

I learned a lot of new words that day.

I don’t remember all of them, but I do know that mother, father, sister, and teacher were among them—words that were going to make the world blossom for me, "like Aaron's rod, with flowers." It would have been hard to find a happier child than I was as I lay in my crib at the end of that eventful day, reliving the joys it had brought me, and for the first time, I longed for a new day to come.