Sarah was nineteen years old and felt like she had everything. She worked as a massage therapist, loved snowboarding, and felt so high on life. Then one day, she started to feel sick. She thought it was just the flu, so she went home from work early. Less than twenty-four hours later, she was in the hospital on life support, where doctors gave her less than a two percent chance of living.

Sarah felt really tired and fell asleep. She tried so hard to open her eyes, forcing herself awake over and over, but then she fell into the deepest sleep she had ever felt. Suddenly, she heard a voice say, "Sarah, get up and look in the mirror." She stood up and realized she couldn't feel her feet. Her feet were completely numb. She looked down at her feet, and they were purple. She looked at her hands, and they were purple. She looked at her reflection in the mirror, and her nose, chin, and cheeks were purple as well. In that moment, everything hit, and she knew she was dying.

Her cousin walked in and dropped the drink she was carrying. She said, "Oh my God, it looks like you're dead." Sarah said, "I'm dying. I know I am."

On the way to the hospital, Sarah's lungs started to collapse. She had to focus on her breath, telling herself to breathe because she couldn't catch a breath. By the time she got to the hospital, which was maybe fifteen minutes away, her lungs collapsed, her veins collapsed. She was immediately put on life support. She was in full septic shock, and they called her parents and said she maybe had two hours left to live.

The nurse, whose name was Penny, had red hair, and Sarah remembered she was crying, trying to find a vein because she was trying to get an IV in. She kept saying to the doctor, "Why can't I find a vein?" And the doctor said, "Because she's in cardiac arrest."

Sarah had contracted bacterial meningitis. She lost both legs below the knee. She lost her spleen and her kidney function. She lost the hearing in her left ear. All of this happened in less than a day.

Her feet were so cold, ice cold, and she kept asking her dad to let her see her feet. Her dad said, "Your feet are the least of our worries. We're not worried about your feet." But Sarah said, "My feet hurt so bad." So her dad let her see her feet. He pulled the covers back, and her feet were just totally purple.

The doctor said, "If we do not amputate your legs tomorrow, here," and he pointed at her ankles, "then we'll have to amputate your legs above the knees next."

When Sarah was in the hospital, she gave herself three goals. The first goal was that she was not going to feel sorry for herself. She wasn't a victim, and she didn't want to act like a victim. The second one was that when she figured all this out, she wanted to help others do the same. And the third one was that she was going to snowboard that year.

Meanwhile, in a small town in the Midwest, Jake was just a normal kid. His backyard was a bean field or a cornfield depending on the season, and he would knock over the corn stalks and build a little fort. He was just a typical Midwestern boy who loved swimming and sports.

Then Jake had a knee injury. Looking back at it, that knee injury triggered every other joint to go so haywire that he swelled up and looked like the Pillsbury dough boy. When he had the bone marrow test, which is when they go in the back with a surgical drill and try to aspirate some of your marrow, they went in and the first time aspirated a piece of bone. They had to do it two more times. That was probably the most painful thing that had ever happened to him.

They finally diagnosed him with advanced stage four Hodgkin's lymphoma, and they told his parents, "Your firstborn son has three months to live." Jake was thirteen years old.

Jake remembered sitting on the side of the bed and seeing a ton of hair on his pillow. That was the moment his hair started falling out because of the chemo. He went back into the shower, turned the shower on, and while he was in the shower, all of his hair fell out. He collapsed to the floor. He literally just sat on the floor until the water started running cold, and he just had clumps of hair in his hands, tears running down his face. He was pulling chunks of hair out of the drain.

He was thinking about what his friends were doing that morning. They were out worried about the coolest hairstyles, worried about the coolest shoes, the nicest clothes, being in the popular cliques. Here he was, and that was the moment he decided that he had two choices. He could either fight for his life or give up and die.

Jake fought, and he survived. But at age fifteen, while in remission, a second cancer was discovered, totally unrelated to the first. This one was even more rare, and the prognosis was a six percent chance of survival. They gave him two weeks to live. Fourteen days to live, the second time.

Jake was the only person who had ever been diagnosed with both of those cancers. The chances of him surviving both of those cancers was equivalent to winning the lottery four times in a row with the same numbers. So it was impossible. There were nights he went to bed honestly not knowing if he was going to wake up the next morning. His future literally was right then and there, potentially maybe the next day.

But Jake realized something. The second time around, he wasn't focused on not dying. He was focused on living. He wanted to put his energy and his focus on what he wanted, not the avoidance of something he didn't want.

Back in the hospital, Sarah woke from a coma and saw her black feet. She was wheeled into the operating room where they were going to amputate her legs. She was so scared. She had no idea what her life was going to be like. She was a snowboarder. This world is made for legs. At least that's how she felt.

But then Sarah remembered seeing somebody bring an article in of a double leg amputee running on running blades. Something just clicked. She thought to herself, if she can run, then I can snowboard. And she was beautiful too. She looked great. It just gave Sarah this vision.

Sarah spent two and a half months in the hospital. Her hair fell out. She swelled up sixty pounds. But she never gave up on her three goals.

When Sarah got her first prosthetics, the reality of a lifelong journey hit her. But she remembered her third goal. She was going to snowboard that year.

The first time Sarah went back to the mountain, she was on the chairlift, and that was the first time that kind of fear set in. What if I can't do this? This whole time, she had been visualizing, working towards something. This was the first time that she thought this moment is going to let me know if I can do this again or not.

Sarah went to ride her toe edge, but her ankles wouldn't bend. Her ankles wouldn't bend, and she ended up just shooting straight down the mountain. She hit a bump. She was totally out of control. She hit the bump and fell. Her goggles went one way, her beanie went the other way, and her legs, still attached to her snowboard, went flying down the mountain. She was still sitting on top of the mountain.

She heard a lady scream from the chairlift. She literally broke into pieces. Body parts just went everywhere.

Sarah was really defeated. She thought, this is why you don't see people with prosthetic legs snowboarding. This is so hard. Clearly, it's not possible. But then she thought, wait a second. If I can figure out a way to keep my legs attached, and if I can figure out a way to just get a little bit more ankle motion, then maybe I actually can do this.

Maybe there's nobody out here with prosthetic legs snowboarding because there hasn't been somebody passionate enough to figure it out, to really put in the work to figure it out. And maybe that person is me.

Sarah figured it out. She learned to snowboard again. She became a Paralympic snowboarder. She even competed on Dancing with the Stars, where she was the first double leg amputee to compete. As soon as news broke that a double leg amputee was on the show, Twitter went crazy. People said the judges were just going to give her sympathy points, that they were only doing this because they felt bad for her.

Sarah knew that the world was watching her, expecting her to fail. She had prosthetic legs. She had to prove she wanted to prove people wrong. She wanted to prove herself wrong too.

They had weeks where they had no idea what feet she was wearing. The feet that she had didn't work. There weren't any dancing feet out there. So she was using her snowboard foot. She was online, looking for other types of feet and calling manufacturers.

She called one manufacturer and said, "Hi, I'm on Dancing with the Stars. I'm hoping that I can get these feet to dance in." And they said, "Oh, they are not made for dancing. They're not even made for walking. They're made for swimming, and that's it." So Sarah called back the next day and said, "I was hoping I could get these feet to swim in." And they overnighted them to her, and she realized she could balance on the very tips of her toes, just like a ballerina.

Sarah made it to the finals of Dancing with the Stars. She proved that the possibilities are endless if you're passionate enough and willing to work hard enough and get creative.

Meanwhile, Jake survived his second cancer, but he lost one lung to the treatment. He spent extended time in a medically induced coma. But he survived. He was alive.

Jake found out that no cancer survivor had ever climbed Mount Everest. He said, "I can use that as a twenty-nine thousand foot platform for hope. If some guy with one lung is climbing Everest after surviving two terminal cancers, you can do anything you want to."

Jake literally moved from his home. He and his brother lived out of the back of their car, camping and looking for sponsorship. He would get on the pay phone and say, "Hey. I'm Jake. I'm a two-time cancer survivor. I have one lung, and in nine months I'm going to go climb Mount Everest. Hello?" People just didn't think it was physiologically possible to climb the highest mountain in the world with half your lung capacity.

Everybody told him he was nuts. Somebody said, "Eight months in training does not a Himalayan climber make." So when Jake got to base camp, that was his personal record. Every step past base camp was his PR.

Jake kept telling himself every step. He had a mantra. He said, "The higher I go, the stronger I get. The higher I go, the stronger I get."

At Camp Three, Jake got cerebral edema. He was vomiting undigested food. But he kept going. He kept telling himself, "The higher I go, the stronger I get."

Jake became the first cancer survivor to summit Mount Everest. With one lung. After surviving two terminal cancers.

Jake went on to complete what's called the Grand Slam. He climbed the seven highest summits on each continent, plus reached the North and South Poles. He did all of this with one lung.

Jake visits children's hospitals around the world. There was one child he met in Sydney. He was in touch with him via email probably once or twice a week for a few months, and then all of a sudden, nothing. Then Jake got an email from the child's mom saying that he had passed away.

She wrote to Jake saying, "Don't be sad that he's passed away because every day he woke up, he said, 'Look, Jake's giving me some hope. I want to be like him when I grow up.'" So if Jake could inspire one child like that, to move forward, to have hope and to enjoy the days that person has alive, he was doing something right.

Jake says that people fighting for their lives can't pick up their cell phone and say, "Hey, I'm going to take a day off. I quit today," because they would die. So when he thinks of somebody sitting, laying in a hospital bed, putting up with what they have to put up with, he can choose to put up and battle the elements.

Sarah founded an organization to help others with disabilities learn to snowboard and participate in action sports. She travels the world, inspiring people and showing them that no matter what their circumstances are, they're capable of so much. If you're passionate enough and you're willing to work hard enough and get creative, then the possibilities are endless.

Both Sarah and Jake proved that the impossible is possible. Sarah lost both legs and became a Paralympic snowboarder and Dancing with the Stars finalist. Jake had cancer twice, lost a lung, and climbed Mount Everest. Both of them were told they were going to die. Both of them chose to focus on living instead of dying. Both of them proved that with determination, creativity, and passion, you can do things that everyone says are impossible.

Every morning, Jake wakes up and tells himself that the past is gone. There's nothing he can do about it. The future for him may never come. Tomorrow may never get here. So no matter what happens today, today's the best day ever. No matter what happens, he's still alive, and he's still looking at the flowers from the top as opposed to the roots. So no matter what happens today, it's the best day he's ever going to have.

Sarah believes that no matter what our circumstances are, we're capable of so much. And if you're passionate enough and you're willing to work hard enough and get creative, then the possibilities are endless.

Both of them chose to fight. Both of them chose to live. Both of them proved that the impossible is possible.

