Sarah is nineteen and feels like she has everything. She worked as a massage therapist and loved snowboarding very much. One day, she feels sick and cannot go out. She thought it was the flu and went home early. Less than a day later, she was in the hospital and doctors said she might not live. Sarah felt tired and fell asleep. She tried to open her eyes but fell into deep sleep. Sarah hears a voice say, "Get up and look in the mirror. Her feet feel numb and cold now. She looked down and saw her feet were purple. She looked at her hands and saw they were purple. She looked in the mirror and saw her purple nose and cheeks. In that moment, she felt everything and knew she was dying. Her cousin walked in and dropped her drink. Sarah said, "Oh my God, it looks like you are dead. On the way to the hospital, Sarah's lungs begin to collapse. She focuses on her breath and tells herself to breathe. By the time Sarah got to the hospital, her lungs and veins collapsed. She was put on life support right away. She is very sick, and they say she has two hours to live. The nurse named Penny had red hair and cried while finding a vein. Sarah asked the doctor why she could not find a vein. She lost both legs below her knees in an accident. She lost her spleen and her kidney works badly. She lost her hearing in one ear. All of this happens in less than one day. Her feet are very cold, and she asks her dad to see them. Her dad said that her feet are not a big problem. Sarah said her feet hurt, but her dad helped her. He pulled the covers back and her feet were purple. The doctor said Sarah must have surgery on her legs tomorrow. She does not feel sorry for herself and stays strong. She is not a victim and does not want to act like one. When she learned this, she wanted to help others too. She planned to snowboard that year and was excited. Jake is a normal kid in a small town. His backyard was a bean field in summer and a cornfield in fall. He was a typical boy who loved swimming and sports. Jake had an injury to his knee. His knee injury made him swell and look very big. When he had the test, they used a drill and took some marrow. They had to do it two more times and then they finished. That was the most painful thing that ever happened to him. They told Jake's parents he has three months to live. Jake remembered sitting on the bed and seeing hair on his pillow. That was when his hair fell out from the chemo. He went back to the shower and his hair fell out. He fell down to the floor and could not get up. He sat on the floor and cried with hair in his hands. He pulls hair from the drain and feels frustrated. He thinks about what his friends do that morning. They worried about cool hairstyles, nice shoes, and popular friends. He was there and decided he had two choices. He can fight for his life or give up and die. Jake fought and he lived. At fifteen, Jake had cancer again, but it was different. This one is very rare and has a six percent chance to live. They told him he has two weeks to live. He has fourteen days to live for the second time. Jake was the only person with both types of cancer. His chance to survive cancer is like winning the lottery four times. It was not possible to do it. He went to bed and did not know if he would wake up. His future was right there and maybe the next day. Jake understood something important. The second time, he did not think about dying. He is focused on living life well. He wanted to focus on what he wanted and not on what he did not want. Sarah woke up in the hospital and saw her black feet. They wheeled Sarah into the room to take her legs. She was very scared and did not know what to do. She did not know what her life would be like. She was a snowboarder and loved the snow. This world is good for people with legs. That is how she felt at least. But then Sarah remembered seeing a woman run on special legs. Something clicked in her mind and she understood. She thought if that woman can run, then Sarah can snowboard. She was beautiful and kind too. She looked great and made everyone smile. It gave Sarah a clear vision of her future. Sarah was in the hospital for two and a half months. Her hair falls out and she feels sad. She gained sixty pounds and felt very uncomfortable. But she never gave up on her goals. When Sarah got her first prosthetics, she felt a big change. But she remembers her third goal. She is going to snowboard this year. When Sarah went back to the mountain, she felt fear. What happens if she cannot do this? She works hard and thinks about her goals all the time. This is the first time she thinks if she can do this again. Sarah wanted to ride, but her ankles did not bend. Her ankles do not bend, so she goes straight down the mountain. She hits a bump and feels surprised. She was very upset and could not control herself. She hit the bump and then she fell. Her goggles and beanie went different ways as she flew down the mountain. She sits on top of the mountain. She hears a lady scream from the chairlift. She felt very sad and broke into pieces. Body parts went everywhere and made a big mess. Sarah felt very sad and defeated. She thought this is why people with prosthetic legs don't snowboard. This is very difficult and she feels frustrated. It is not possible to do this. But then she thought for a moment. If she can keep her legs attached and move her ankle, she can try. Nobody snowboards with prosthetic legs because no one tries hard enough. Maybe that person is her. Sarah understands it now. She learned to snowboard again and felt happy. She becomes a snowboarder for the Paralympics. She competed on Dancing with the Stars as the first double amputee. When news came that a double leg amputee was on the show, Twitter went crazy. People said the judges gave her points because they felt bad. Sarah knew the world watched her and expected her to fail. She has legs that are not real. She had to show she wanted to prove people wrong. She wanted to show that she was wrong too. They had weeks when they did not know what shoes she wore. Her feet did not work well for her. There were no dancing feet outside. She uses her snowboard foot when she rides. She is online and looks for feet and calls makers. She called a maker and said, "Hi, I am on a show. I hope my feet can dance, but they say they cannot. They are not made for walking at all. Sarah called the next day and said she wanted to swim. Sarah is in the finals of Dancing with the Stars. She showed that you can do anything if you work hard and are creative. Jake survived cancer but lost one lung to treatment. He was in a coma for a long time. He was hurt but he survived. He is alive and happy. Jake learns no cancer survivor climbs Mount Everest. He said he can use that for hope. Jake moved from his home because he can do anything. He and his brother lived in their car and looked for help. He gets on the phone and says, "Hey. I am Jake. I am a cancer survivor and I feel strong. I have one lung but I will climb Mount Everest in nine months. People did not think it was possible to climb the highest mountain. Everyone said he was crazy. Jake reached base camp and set his personal record after training. Every step after base camp is his best time. Jake told himself this with every step he took. He has a saying that helps him. He said he gets stronger when he goes higher. Jake goes higher and gets stronger, but he has a problem. He vomited food that he could not digest. But he continued to move forward. Jake climbs Mount Everest and becomes the first cancer survivor. He lives with one lung and feels strong. Jake survived two cancers and feels strong now. Jake completed the challenge called the Grand Slam. He climbed the highest mountains and reached the North and South Poles. He did all this with just one lung. Jake visits hospitals for children in many countries. He met one child in Sydney. He emailed the child once or twice a week, but then stopped. Jake got an email from the child's mom that the child died. The child's mom wrote to Jake and said Jake gave the child hope. Jake inspires children to have hope and enjoy their lives. Jake says people in danger cannot take a day off. They cannot quit today because they might die. When he thinks of someone in a hospital bed, he can fight. Sarah started a group to help people with disabilities snowboard. She travels the world and inspires people to believe in themselves. If you work hard and get creative, you can do anything. Sarah and Jake showed that what seems impossible can happen. Sarah lost her legs but became a Paralympic snowboarder and finalist. Jake had cancer, lost a lung, and climbed Mount Everest. They told Sarah and Jake they will die. They chose to live and not to die. Sarah and Jake show that you can do impossible things with passion. Every morning, Jake wakes up and says the past is gone. He can do nothing about it. His future may never come for him. Tomorrow might not come at all. Today is the best day ever, no matter what happens. He is alive and looks at the flowers from the top. Today is the best day he will ever have. Sarah believes we can do a lot in any situation. If you work hard and get creative, you can do anything. They both choose to fight together. They both choose to live together. They showed that what seems impossible can be possible.