SOURCE: TODAY.com (NBC)
TITLE: This 9-year-old Girl Is Teaching Her Dad English — and TikTok Loves It
SUBTITLE: "She understands that language is power."
URL: https://www.today.com/parents/dads/9-year-old-girl-teaches-dad-english-viral-videos-rcna232146
AUTHOR: Elise Solé (Lifestyle Reporter, Parents)
DATE: Oct. 6, 2025, 9:51 AM PDT

---

A young girl in Arizona is teaching English to her Guatemalan father in viral videos.

"I want to inspire people," Kimi Pu, 9, tells TODAY.com. "I started teaching my dad English when I was pretty little, because I noticed that he needed a lot of help at restaurants and stores and talking to his customers ... they didn't understand what he said."

Kimi's dad, Nicolas Pu, who works as a landscaper, tells TODAY.com in Spanish (translated into English by Kimi) that his shaky English skills have placed him in tenuous public interactions. Growing up in Guatemala, Nicolas spoke his native language of K'iche, then learned Spanish from friends at age 13.

Kimi and her father have thousands of followers on their TikTok and Instagram accounts, "Kimi and Her Dad," where Kimi patiently teaches him English, always joking into the camera, "You better leave a nice comment."

"She's not just teaching her dad English — she's showing him that he's loved and seen,"

— Natalia Molina, professor of American Studies and Ethnicity at USC

Many TikTok commenters say their page is warming hearts and mending family wounds. One person wrote: "As someone who grew up with an absent father, watching both of you has healed something in me." Another commented, "Pass the tissues."

Kimi's "classes" cover animals, colors, emotions and household objects.

In an August video, Kimi lays out a bunch of kitchen utensils and quizzes Nicolas on the English word for each.

When Kimi affirms that Nicolas has applied the correct word for "Cup," he exclaims, "Thank you, teacher!" When Nicolas calls a fork a "Frog," Kimi gently corrects him: "Do you know what a frog is? ... 'frog' is an animal — this is a fork."

"Fork! Sorry!" says Nicolas; Kimi replies, "Great job. No, it's fine ... it takes a process."

Instead of gold stars, Kimi doles out hugs and kisses for correct answers.

When Kimi and her dad aren't reviewing grammar at home, they're taking field trips (she quizzed him on vocabulary for fruit and vegetables in the produce department at Walmart) and role-playing different scenarios to develop his language skills.

In a video, Kimi plays a stern traffic cop who pulls over Nicolas, asking for his license, insurance card and registration. "Yes!" answers Nicolas.

"Do you want to go to jail?" Kimi later shouted at her dad, who replied, "Jail? Yes, please." Nicolas' caption reads: "Today, Kimi showed me why I really need to learn English. Last time a police officer stopped me, all I said was, 'Yes, yes.'"

Someone wrote on the video: "As an immigration attorney, thank you Kimi! It is a funny skit but you just gave an extremely valuable demonstration that allows everyone to see why it's important."

Kimi has also played a "difficult" homeowner who refuses to pay Nicolas for his landscaping work. From Kimi, Nicolas learns to validate instructions with his customer and defend his fee. In an Instagram video, Kimi plays a "Karen" who yells at Nicolas for speaking Spanish. Nicolas learns how to respond calmly and clearly. "In the end, patience always wins," reads the video caption.

'Language Is Power'

Kimi and her dad's TikTok account is "heartwarming," Natalia Molina, a dean's professor of American Studies and Ethnicity at the University of Southern California, tells TODAY.com.

"She's not just teaching her dad English — she's showing him that he's loved and seen," says Molina, author of "A Place at the Nayarit: How a Mexican Restaurant Nourished a Community."

"She understands that language is power and that her dad is disadvantaged because of his speaking skills," says Molina. "He is vulnerable and marked as an outsider because he speaks Spanish."

According to Molina, children are often the language and cultural translators for their non-English speaking parents — during medical appointments or school meetings — which can burden kids' time and psyches and expose them to mature conversations.

"These children often know about, and have to absorb, information about their parents' health or finances," says Molina, adding that without a translator, "there is no buffer" to soften the blow for kids.

Kimi's mom, Abigail Pu, tells TODAY.com (in Spanish and translated into English by her daughter) that Kimi has been interpreting for her and Nicolas since she was 3 or 4 years old.

"I like helping them a lot," says Kimi, adding that her mom speaks "better" English than her dad.

According to Kimi, some of her teachers speak Spanish and a translator is available for her family's doctor's appointments.

"Now that she has grown and speaks English much better, she teaches both me and her dad," Abigail tells TODAY.com in an email, using a Spanish-to-English translation tool. "Sometimes she corrects my pronunciation, and she helps her dad ... with the basics."

Abigail adds that Kimi "always had a big heart" and loves to assist classmates who don't speak English very well.

Molina says parents who need language help from their kids can sometimes feel embarrassed.

Nicolas says the parent-child role reversal doesn't bother him, because his family is a "team."

"We all help each other with something," Nicolas tells TODAY.com. "We're always together."

---

AUTHOR BIO:
Elise Solé is an experienced writer and editor who specializes in parenting and pop culture for the TODAY audience. She's a former New Yorker who lives in Los Angeles. She loves true crime shows, gummy candy of all types, running and hanging out with her son and husband.
