THE INVITATION

She was a pretty and charming girl, but she was born into a family of clerks. She had no money, no hopes, and no way to be loved. She married a poor clerk who worked at the Ministry of Public Instruction. She dressed simply because she could not dress nicely, and she felt unhappy. It was as if she had lost her important status, but there is no class or rank for women. Good looks, style, and charm matter more than family or birth. Natural grace and a talent for elegance are very important, and they make common women equal to the greatest ladies. She felt pain every day because she wanted tasty food and beautiful things. She suffered because her home was poor and the walls looked bad, and the chairs were old, but the curtains were ugly too. All those things tortured her, and they made her angry because another woman would not care. The sight of the small Breton farmer made her feel sad, and she remembered lost dreams. She thought about the quiet rooms with beautiful tapestries and tall candles. She also thought of the two big footmen in short pants who slept in big chairs, and they felt sleepy because the room was hot. She thought of the long rooms full of old silk and delicate furniture. The furniture carried precious items, and the nice rooms had strong perfume. These rooms were for talks at five o'clock with close friends and famous men. All women envied these men and wanted their attention. When she sat down for dinner at the round table, her husband uncovered the soup and said with a happy voice, "Ah, the good stew!" "I do not know anything better than this," she thought of nice dinners and shiny silverware. She imagined beautiful tapestries on the walls with old people and strange birds in a fairy forest. She also thought of tasty food served on beautiful plates and of sweet words you hear while smiling. You eat the pink meat of a trout or the wings of a quail. She had no dresses and no jewels, so she had nothing. She loved only that thing, and she felt that it was for her. She wanted to be liked, admired, and charming, so she tried hard. She had a friend from school who was rich, but she did not want to see her anymore because it made her feel so sad. One evening, her husband came home proudly and held a large envelope. "There is something for you," he said, and he smiled kindly. She tore the paper quickly and took out a card that said, "The Minister of Public Instruction and Mme." Georges Ramponneau asks for the honor of Mr. M to join.