She was a beautiful and charming girl who, by a twist of fate, was born into a family of clerks. She had no money for a dowry and no hopes of being loved or married by a rich man. However, she agreed to marry a small clerk who worked at the Ministry of Public Instruction. She dressed simply because she did not know how to dress well. However, she felt very unhappy, as if she had lost her place in society. For women, there are no strict social classes or ranks. Instead, beauty, grace, and charm are more important than family background or birth. Natural grace, a sense of elegance, and sharp wit are the true measures of worth, making ordinary women equal to the greatest ladies. She felt great pain because she believed she was meant for all the beautiful things and comforts in life. She felt the weight of her poverty every day, seeing the worn walls that surrounded her home. The old chairs reminded her of neglect and sadness. Furthermore, the unattractive curtains made her feel trapped in a world she did not like. Many things troubled her, which another woman of her status would not have even noticed, and this made her feel angry. The sight of the small Breton farmer doing her simple chores made her feel deep regrets and led to daydreams filled with sadness. She imagined the quiet rooms decorated with beautiful Eastern fabrics and lit by tall bronze candle holders. She also thought of the two footmen in formal clothes who slept in big armchairs, feeling sleepy from the warm air from the stove. She imagined the long rooms filled with beautiful silk. The elegant furniture held valuable treasures. She also thought of charming scented bedrooms for five o'clock talks with close friends. These friends included famous men who were admired by all women, and whose attention everyone desired. As she sat down for dinner at the round table, which had a three-day-old tablecloth, her husband smiled and lifted the lid off the soup. "Ah, the delicious pot-au-feu!" he said with excitement, making her feel happy to be sharing this meal. "I can't imagine anything better," she thought of lovely dinners, shining silverware, and tapestries showing ancient people and strange birds in a magical forest. She imagined delicious food served on beautiful plates. She thought of sweet whispers of compliments that you hear with a mysterious smile. This happened while enjoying the tender flesh of trout or quail wings. She owned no beautiful dresses or shiny jewels, and she felt empty, lacking anything that could bring her joy. Her only love was that one thing, and she believed she was meant for it entirely. She really wanted to make others happy, to be admired, to be charming, and to be wanted by people around her. She had a friend from school at the convent who was very rich. However, she did not enjoy visiting her anymore because it caused her a lot of pain. One evening, her husband came back home looking proud, while he held a big envelope in his hand. "Look," he said, "I have something special for you." She ripped the paper quickly and took out a printed card. The card had these words: "The Minister of Public Instruction and Madame Georges Ramponneau request the honor of Mr. and Mrs. Loisel's presence at a special evening event."