"THE CHANGE I One morning, Gregor Samsa woke up from bad dreams. He saw that he had turned into a scary bug in his bed." "He was on his hard back. When he lifted his head a bit, he saw his brown belly. It was a little round and had hard parts." "The bed cover was too small and looked like it could fall off soon." "His many legs were very thin. They moved around with no aim as he looked." "What happened to me?" "He thought." "It was not a dream." "His room, a good room for a person but a bit too small, was quiet between its four known walls." There were cloth samples on the table. Samsa was a man who sold things and traveled. There was a picture above the table. He cut it out from a magazine not long ago. He put it in a nice, gold frame. The picture showed a woman. She wore a fur hat and fur scarf. She sat up straight. She lifted a big fur hand-warmer. It covered her whole lower arm. She pointed it at the person looking at the picture. "Gregor then looked out the window at the bad weather." "He could hear rain hitting the window and it made him very sad." "He thought, can I sleep more and forget all this silly stuff? But he couldn't. He always slept on his right side and now he couldn't do that." No matter how hard he tried to roll to his right, he always rolled back to where he started. "He tried it many times. He closed his eyes so he didn't see his legs. He stopped when he started to feel a new, soft pain." "Oh no," he thought, "what a hard job I have picked!" "Traveling every day." Doing business this way is harder than working at home. Also, you must travel a lot. You worry about catching trains. You eat bad food that is not on time. You meet new people all the time. So, you can't make friends with them. "It can all go bad!" "He felt a small itch on his belly. He moved slowly on his back to sit up. This way, he could lift his head better. He found the itch and saw many small white spots. He didn't know what these spots were. He tried to touch the spots with his leg but pulled it back fast. He did this because he felt very cold when he touched it." "He moved back to his old place." "He thought, waking up early always makes you dumb." "You need to sleep enough." "Other salesmen who travel live a rich life." For example, when I go to the guest house in the morning to write the contract, these men are always there eating breakfast. "I should try that with my boss. He would fire me right away." "But who can tell, maybe that would be the best for me." "If I didn't need to care for my parents, I would have quit my job long ago. I would have told my boss what I think. I would tell him everything. I would let him know how I feel." "He would fall right from his desk!" "It's strange to sit at your desk and talk to your workers from there. It's even stranger when you have to speak loudly because the boss can't hear well." "Well, there is still some hope. When I have the money to pay my parents' debt - maybe in five or six years - that's what I will do for sure." "That's when I will make the big change." "First, I need to get up. My train leaves at five." "And he looked at the clock on the small table." "Oh my God!" "He thought." "It was after six thirty and the clock hands were moving. It was almost seven o'clock." "Did the alarm clock ring?" "He could see the clock from the bed. It was set for four o'clock like it should be. It must have rung for sure." "Yes, but could you sleep with that loud noise from the furniture?" "Yes, he did not sleep well, but maybe he slept very deeply because of this." "What should he do now?" "The next train left at seven. If he wanted to get it, he had to hurry a lot. His samples were not packed yet. He did not feel awake and happy." "Even if he got on the train, his boss would still be mad. The office helper saw the five o'clock train leave. He told the boss long ago that Gregor was not there." "The office helper worked for the boss, had no courage, and did not understand things." "What if he said he was sick?" "But that would be very strange and odd because Gregor was never sick in five years of work." His boss would come with the doctor from the health company. He would say his parents have a lazy son. He would agree with the doctor not to ask for money. The doctor thinks that no one is sick, but many are lazy. "And what's more, was he completely wrong this time?" "Gregor woke up from a long sleep. He felt very good but was more hungry than normal." "He was still thinking fast in bed, not sure if he should get up, when the clock said it was almost seven." Someone knocked softly on the door near his head. "Gregor, your mother called and said it's almost seven." "Didn't you want to go to a place?" "That soft voice!" Gregor was surprised when he heard his voice. It did not sound like his old voice. "It felt like a hurtful sound came from inside him. At first, you could understand the words. But then, an echo made them hard to hear. So, the listener didn't know if they heard right or not." "Gregor wanted to say a lot and explain all, but he just said: Yes, mom, yes, thank you, I'm getting up now." "Gregor's voice changed but no one could hear it outside the wooden door. His mother was happy with his answer and walked away." "But this small talk let the family know that Gregor was still at home. Soon, his father came and knocked on a side door softly with his hand." "Gregor, Gregor," he called, "what is wrong?" "After a short time, he called again with a serious voice: Gregor!" "Gregor!" "His sister came to the other door and sadly called: Gregor?" "Aren't you feeling good?" "Do you need something?" "Gregor said to both sides: I'm ready now. He tried hard to make his voice sound normal. He spoke very clearly and paused after each word." His dad went back to his food. But his sister said quietly, "Gregor, please open the door." "Gregor did not want to open the door. He was happy that he always locked doors at night. He learned this when he was traveling." "The first thing he wanted was to wake up calmly. He didn't want anyone to bother him. He wanted to put on his clothes. But most of all, he wanted to eat his breakfast." Only then would he think about what to do next. He knew he couldn't make good decisions while in bed. "He knew he often felt a small pain in bed. Maybe it was because he was lying in a bad way. But it was always just in his mind. He thought about how his thoughts would change today." "He was sure his voice changed because he was getting a bad cold. This often happens to people who travel for work." It was easy to take off the covers. He just had to puff up a bit and they fell off alone. "But it got hard after that, especially because he was very wide." "He wanted to use his arms and hands to get up. But he only had many small legs. They were always moving in different ways. And he could not control them." "If he tried to move one leg, it was the first to stretch. But when he moved that leg, all the others moved and it hurt." "Gregor said to himself, you can't do this in bed, so stop trying." He wanted to move his legs out of bed first. But he had never seen his legs and didn't know what they looked like. It was very hard to move them. They moved very slowly. Then, he pushed himself forward with all his strength. But he pushed in the wrong way. He hit the bedpost hard and it hurt a lot. He learned that his legs were very sensitive. "So he tried to move the top part of his body out of the bed first. He turned his head to the side carefully." "He did this very easily. Even though it was wide and heavy, his body slowly moved the same way as his head." "But when he finally got his head out of the bed and into the fresh air, he thought that if he fell, his head might get hurt. So, he was scared to keep moving in the same way." "And he could not make himself sleep now, no matter what. It was better to stay in bed than to faint." "It was hard to go back to where he was before. But when he lay there and sighed, he watched his legs fight more than before. He could not think of a way to make things calm and ordered." "He told himself again that he could not stay in bed. He thought the best thing to do was to get out of bed in any way he could, no matter what." "But, he also remembered that thinking calmly was better than making fast, bad choices." Sometimes he would look out the window, but he could not see well. The street was full of morning fog and it made him feel sad. "It's seven o'clock already," he said to himself when the clock rang. "Seven o'clock and the fog is still here." "He lay there quietly for a bit longer, breathing softly. Maybe he thought the quiet would make things normal again." "But then he told himself: I need to get out of bed before it is a little past seven." "And by that time, someone from work will come to see what happened to me. They start work before seven in the morning." "So he tried to move his whole body out of the bed at once." "If he fell out of bed this way and kept his head up, he could likely not hurt it." "His back looked very strong, and likely nothing bad would happen if he fell on the carpet." "He was worried about the loud noise he would make. Even with all the doors closed, it could scare people." "But it was something we had to try." "When Gregor was half out of the bed, he thought it was fun. He just moved back and forth. He thought how easy it would be if someone helped him." "He thought two strong people, like his father and the maid, could help him. They could put their arms under his back and lift him from the bed. Then they would need to be slow and careful. They would put him on the floor and hope his small legs could work." "Should he ask for help, even when all the doors were closed?" Even though things were hard, he still smiled when he thought about this. After some time, he moved so far that it was hard for him to stay up if he moved too much. "It was now ten minutes after seven and he needed to make a last choice soon." Then, someone rang the door of the apartment. "He thinks it's someone from work," he said to himself. He stopped moving but his small legs danced more. For a bit, everything was quiet. "Gregor said to himself, they are not opening the door, hoping in a silly way." "But then, as always, the maid walked to the door and opened it." "Gregor heard the visitor say hello and knew it was the boss." "Why did Gregor have to be the only one working for a company that quickly got very worried if he made a small mistake?" Did all workers act badly? Was there not one good and loyal worker? Would he feel so bad that he could not get up if he did not work for the company for a few hours in the morning? "Was it not enough to let a new worker ask questions? Did the boss need to come? Did they need to show the family that this was strange? Did they think only the boss could check it?" "And more because these thoughts made him sad, he used all his power to get out of bed." "There was a big sound, but it was not very loud." "He fell but the carpet made it softer. Gregor's back was also more bendy than he thought. So, the sound was quiet and not too loud." "He did not hold his head well and hit it when he fell. He felt pain and was upset, so he turned his head and rubbed it on the rug." "The boss in the left room said something fell down there," "Gregor thought if the same thing that happened to him could happen to the boss. He had to agree that it could happen." "But in answer to this, the boss's loud steps in his shiny boots could be heard in the next room." "Gregor, your boss is here," his sister said softly from the room on his right. "Yes, I know," Gregor said to himself. But he didn't speak loud enough for his sister to hear. "Gregor," his father said from the room on his left, "the boss is here and asks why you didn't take the early train." "We don't know what to tell him." "And anyway, he wants to talk to you himself." "Please open this door." "I am sure he will forgive you for your messy room." "Then the main worker said Good morning, Mr." "Samsa." "His mother told the big worker he is not well. His father kept talking at the door." "He is not well, please trust me." "Why did Gregor miss the train!" "The boy only thinks about the work all the time." "It almost makes me mad that he never goes out at night. He has been in the city for a week but stayed home every night." "He sits with us in the kitchen and reads the paper or looks at train times." "He relaxes by working with his small saw." "He made a small frame. For example, he made it in two or three nights. You will be surprised how good it is. It is hanging in his room. You will see it when Gregor opens the door." "Anyway, I'm happy you're here. We couldn't make Gregor open the door alone. He is very stubborn. I think he is not well. He said he is fine this morning, but he is not." "Wait for me, I'll be there soon," said Gregor. He didn't move so he could hear all the talk. "I can't think of another way to tell you, Mrs." "Samsa," said the main worker, "I hope it's not a big problem." "But still, I must say that if we business people get a little sick, we have to get better because of work needs." "Can the main worker come to see you now?" ", his father asked, knocking on the door again." "No," Gregor said. "In the room to his right, it was very quiet and it hurt. In the room to his left, his sister started to cry." "So why didn't his sister go and be with the others?" "She maybe just woke up and did not start to put on clothes yet." "Why was she crying?" "Did he not get up and open the door for the boss's helper because he might lose his job? If he lost his job, would his boss ask his parents for things like before?" "We didn't need to worry about those things yet." "Gregor was still there and did not want to leave his family at all." "For now, he just lay on the carpet. No one who knew how he felt would think he could let the main worker in." "It was just a small rude act. They could find a good reason for it later. Gregor could not be fired right away for this." "And Gregor thought it was better to let him be quiet, not to bother him by talking and crying." "But the others did not know what was going on. They were scared. That is why they acted that way." "The boss spoke louder now, Mr." "Samsa," he called, "what is the problem?" "You lock yourself in your room and only say yes or no. You make your parents worry a lot. Also, you do not do your work well." "I am talking for your parents and your boss. I need a quick and easy answer." "I am very surprised, very surprised." "I thought you were calm and smart, but now you are acting strange and showing off." "Your boss said this morning that you did not come because of the new money. But I almost told him that can't be true." "But now that I see how stubborn you are, I don't want to help you anymore." "And your job is not very safe." "I wanted to tell you this alone. But you made me waste time here for no reason. So, I think your parents should hear it too." "Your sales have been very bad recently. We know it's not a good time to sell a lot. But, there is no time to not sell anything, sir." "Samsa, we can't let this happen." "But Sir," said Gregor, very excited, "I will open the door now, just wait a bit." "I feel a bit sick and dizzy. I can't stand up." "I am still in bed now." "I feel good again now, though." "I am just getting up from bed." "Just a moment." "Wait a bit!" "It's not as easy as I thought." "I am okay now, though." "It's surprising, what can happen to a person all of a sudden!" "I felt okay last night and my parents knew it. Maybe they knew it better than me. I had a small sign of it last night." "They must have seen it." "I don't know why I didn't tell you at work!" "But you always think you can get better from being sick without staying home." "Please, don't make my mom and dad feel bad!" "No one told me about the things you say. Your words have no proof." "Maybe you have not read the new papers I sent." "I will leave with the eight o'clock train. The short rest has made me strong." "Sir, you don't need to wait. I will be in the office soon after you. Please tell the boss and say good things about me to him!" "And as Gregor said these words, not really knowing what he was saying, he moved to the chest of drawers. This was easy, maybe because he had practiced in bed. Here, he tried to stand up straight." "He wanted to open the door. He wanted to let them see him and talk to the boss. They were asking a lot and he wanted to know what they would say when they saw him." "If they were surprised, Gregor would not have to worry and he could rest." "But, if they were calm, he would not be sad. And if he was fast, he could be at the train place by eight." "At first, he tried to climb the smooth drawers but fell. He tried one more time and stood up. His body hurt a lot, but he did not care." "Now he fell back onto a close chair and held it tight with his small legs." "He was calm now and stayed quiet. He wanted to hear what the big boss was saying." "Did you understand any of that?" "The boss asked his mom and dad, is he trying to trick us?" "Oh, God!" He called his mom who was crying. He could be very sick and we are hurting him. "Grete!" "Grete!" "Then she cried." "Mother?" "His sister called him from a different place." "They talked across Gregor's room." "You need to go to the doctor right now." "Gregor is sick." "Fast, call the doctor." "Did you hear how Gregor talked just now?" "The boss said it was an animal's voice. He was calm but his mother was screaming." "Anna!" "Anna!" "His dad yelled from the hall to the kitchen, clapping his hands, bring a key maker here, now!" "And the two girls ran out fast. Their skirts moved as they ran. They opened the front door of the flat." "How did his sister get dressed so fast?" "The door did not bang shut again. They must have left it open. People often leave doors open in homes where bad things have happened." "Gregor, on the other hand, had become a lot more calm." "So they could not understand his words now, even though they were clear to him. Maybe his ears got used to the sound." "They knew something was wrong with him and were ready to help." "The first answer to his problem was smart and good. This made him feel better." "He felt he was back with people again. He thought the doctor and the locksmith would do great things. But he could not tell the difference between them." The next words were very important. So, he coughed a bit to clear his voice. But he did it quietly. He didn't want to sound different from a human. He was not sure he could tell the difference. In the next room, it was now very quiet. "Maybe his parents were sitting at the table and talking quietly with the main worker. Or maybe they were all standing close to the door and listening." "Gregor moved slowly to the door with the chair." "When he got there, he let it go. He threw himself onto the door. He stood up against the door using the sticky ends of his legs." "He took a short rest because he was tired. Then, he used his mouth to turn the key in the lock." Sadly, he had no real teeth. So, how could he hold the key? "But he had a very strong jaw to make up for no teeth. With his jaw, he could turn the key. He did not care if he hurt himself. Brown liquid came out of his mouth, went over the key, and fell on the floor." "Listen," said the big worker in the next room, "he is turning the key." "Gregor felt happy about this. But his father and mother should have also said to him, 'Good job, Gregor'. They should have said, 'Keep going, keep holding the lock!" "And thinking they were all watching him, he bit the key hard. He didn't care that it hurt him." "When he turned the key, he also turned the lock. He stood up using his mouth. He held the key or pushed it down with his body weight when needed." When Gregor heard the lock click, he knew he could stop trying. He took a deep breath and said, "I didn't need a key maker after all." "Then he put his head on the door handle to open it all the way." "Because he had to open the door like this, it was open wide before we could see him." "He first had to turn around one of the big doors slowly. He had to do it very carefully to not fall on his back before going into the room." "He was still trying to move and could not focus on anything else. Then he heard the boss shout loudly." ", which sounded like the sound of the wind." "Now he saw him too. He was closest to the door. His hand was on his open mouth. His hand was moving back slowly, like something unseen was pushing it." "Gregor's mom, with messy hair from bed, looked at his dad even though the boss was there." Then she opened her arms, walked two steps to Gregor, and sat on the floor. Her dress spread around her and her head fell onto her chest. "His father looked angry and made fists like he wanted to push Gregor back into his room." "Then he looked around the living room, not sure. He put his hands over his eyes and cried hard, his chest moving a lot." "So Gregor did not go into the room. He leaned on the inside of the other door which was still locked." "In this way, only half of his body and his head could be seen. He leaned his head to one side to look at the others." The day was now brighter. You could see part of the big, dark building across the street. It was a hospital. The building had many windows in a straight line. It was still raining. Big raindrops were falling one by one. The breakfast dishes were on the table. There were many because Gregor's father loved breakfast. He would eat for hours and read many newspapers. "On the wall in front, there was a picture of Gregor. He was a soldier in the army. He had a sword in his hand. He was smiling and looked happy. He looked strong and people respected him." "The door to the main room was open. He could see the front door of the flat was open too. He could see the stairs and where they started to go down." "Now," said Gregor, "I know I am the only calm one. I will get dressed now, pack my things, and leave." "Can you please let me go?" "You can see," he said to the big boss, "I'm not hard to work with. I like my job. Being a sales traveler is hard but I need to travel to make money." "So, are you going to the office?" "Yes?" "Will you tell everything right, then?" "Sometimes, a person can't work for a short time. But that's when they should think about what they did before. They should know that when the problem is gone, they will work harder and focus more." "You know I owe a lot of money to our boss. I also take care of my parents and sister. I am in a hard place, but I will find a way out." "Please don't make things more hard for me. Don't go against me at work." "I know that no one likes the people who travel." "They think we make a lot of money and have an easy life." "That's only unfair thinking but they don't have a good reason to change it." "But you, sir, you see things better than the other workers. You even see better than the boss. He can make mistakes about his workers and judge them too hard." "You know we travelers are away from the office most of the year. We can easily be hurt by gossip and false complaints. It's very hard to protect ourselves from these things. We often don't hear about them. Or we learn about them when we come home tired from a trip. That's when we feel the bad effects without knowing what caused them." "Please, don't leave. First say something to show you think I'm a bit right!" "But the main worker turned his back when Gregor began to talk. He just looked at him over his shaking shoulders as he left." "He did not stay still when Gregor spoke. He walked to the door and kept looking at him." "He moved very slowly, like he was not allowed to leave the room." "When he got to the front door, he quickly moved. He left the living room and ran fast because he was scared." "In the hall, he put his right hand out towards the stairs. He hoped something would save him there." "Gregor knew he couldn't let the boss leave angry. If he did, his job could be in big trouble." His parents did not know this well. They thought his job would give Gregor money for his whole life. They also had many things to worry about now. So, they stopped thinking about the future. "But Gregor did think about what will happen next." The main worker needed to be stopped, made calm, and agreed. Gregor and his family's future needed this. "I wish his sister was here!" "She was smart. She cried when Gregor was still lying on his back." "The boss liked women, so she could change his mind. She would shut the front door and talk to him until he was not shocked anymore." "But his sister was not there, so Gregor had to do the work himself." He didn't know how well he could move now. He also didn't know if people could understand him. But he opened the door and tried to get to the main worker. The worker was holding the rail with both hands. But he fell right away. He made a small cry as he tried to grab something. He landed on his many small legs. After that happened, he felt good for the first time that day. His small legs were on the hard ground. He was happy because they did what he wanted. They tried to take him where he wanted to go. Soon, he thought all his problems would be over. "He wanted to move but did not. He moved from side to side while sitting on the floor." "His mom was not far in front of him. She looked busy with herself at first. But then, she quickly stood up. She put her arms out and opened her fingers wide. She yelled: Help, please, Help!" She held her head to see Gregor better. But she moved back fast and didn't think. She forgot the table with breakfast was behind her. When she got to the table, she sat on it fast. She didn't know what she was doing. She didn't see that she knocked over the coffee pot. The coffee was spilling onto the carpet. "Mom, mom," Gregor said softly, looking at her. "He forgot the main worker for a bit. But he snapped his mouth when he saw the coffee pour." "His mother started screaming again. She ran from the table to his father's arms when he came to her." "Gregor was very busy and could not talk to his parents. The main worker was already at the stairs. He put his chin on the handrail and looked back one last time." "Gregor ran to him. He wanted to get to him for sure. The big boss must have thought something was wrong. He jumped down many steps at once and was gone. His loud calls could be heard all over the stairs." "The boss's leaving made Gregor's father very scared too." Before, he was calm. But now, he did not chase the main worker. He did not stop Gregor from chasing him. Gregor's dad took the main worker's stick. The worker left it on a chair with his hat and coat. He picked up a big newspaper from the table. He used them to make Gregor go back to his room. He stamped his foot at Gregor. "Gregor asked his father for help but it did not work. His father did not understand what he said. Even when Gregor was very nice, his father only got more angry." In the cold room, Gregor's mom opened a window. She leaned out and put her hands on her face. A big wind came in from the street to the stairs. The curtains went up. The newspapers on the table moved and some fell on the floor. "Gregor's dad would not stop. He pushed him back and made loud sounds like a crazy man." "Gregor never learned how to move backwards and could only go very slow." "If Gregor could turn around, he would go back to his room. But he was scared that his father would get angry if he took too long. His father could hit his back or head with a stick at any time." In the end, Gregor knew he couldn't go back in a straight line. He felt bad about this. So, he started to turn around fast. He often looked at his father with worry. "It moved very slowly, but maybe his dad saw his good heart. His dad did not stop him. Sometimes, his dad used his stick to show him where to go." "I wish his dad would stop making that loud noise!" "Gregor was feeling very confused." "When he was almost done turning, he heard the hissing. He made a mistake and turned back a little." "He was happy when his head was near the door. But then he saw the door was too small. And his body was too big to go through it without more trouble." In his current mood, his father did not think to open the other door. This would give Gregor enough room to pass through. "He only wanted Gregor to go back to his room fast." He would never let Gregor stand up to get ready to go through the door. "He made a lot of noise and pushed Gregor hard. Gregor felt like more than one person was behind him. It was not nice. Gregor moved to the door, not caring what could happen." He lifted one side of his body. He was at an angle in the door. One side of his body hurt on the white door. It left dirty brown spots on it. Soon, he could not move at all. His small legs on one side shook in the air. The legs on the other side hurt on the ground. "Then his dad pushed him hard from behind. This made him move from where he was. He flew into his room and was hurt badly." "The door was closed hard with the stick, then, at last, everything was quiet." "Gregor woke up from his very deep sleep when it was getting dark." "He was going to wake up soon even if no one woke him. He had slept enough and felt very rested." "But he felt that fast steps and the noise of the front room door closing woke him up." "The street lamps gave a weak light on the ceiling and furniture tops. But where Gregor was, it was dark." "He moved to the door. He used his antennae to feel his way. He was starting to understand how useful they were. He wanted to see what happened there." "His left side felt like a big, hurt scar, and he walked with a bad limp on his legs." "One leg was hurt very bad in the morning. It was almost a miracle that only one leg was hurt. It could not move at all." He got to the door and then he knew why he went there. It was the smell of food. Near the door, there was a dish. It had sweet milk and small bits of white bread in it. "He was very happy and almost laughed. He was more hungry than in the morning. He quickly put his head in the milk. The milk almost covered his eyes." "But he quickly pulled his head back. He was sad because his left side hurt. This made it hard for him to eat. He could only eat when his whole body worked together. But the milk did not taste good at all." He usually loved this milk. His sister left it for him because she knew that. But he didn't want it now. He moved away from the dish. He went back to the middle of the room. Gregor saw light from the living room through the door crack. Usually, his father would sit and read the evening paper out loud. He read to Gregor's mother and sometimes to his sister. But now, there was no sound. "Gregor's sister often wrote to him about her reading, but maybe his dad stopped doing it lately." "It was very quiet everywhere, even if someone was in the flat." "Gregor said to himself, what a quiet life my family has. He looked into the dark and felt very proud. He was happy he could give his sister and parents a nice home." "But what if all this peace, money, and comfort end in a scary and bad way?" Gregor did not want to think about that. So, he began to move, going up and down the room. "One time in the evening, someone opened a door in the room a little bit and quickly closed it. Later, the same thing happened with another door. It looked like someone wanted to come in but then decided not to." "Gregor went to the door and waited right away. He wanted to bring the scared visitor into the room. Or, he wanted to at least know who it was. But, no one opened the door that night. So, Gregor waited for nothing." "In the morning, all doors were locked and everyone wanted to see him. But now, he opened a door and someone unlocked the other one during the day. Still, no one came and the keys were on the other sides." The light in the living room was turned off late at night. Now, it was clear his parents and sister had not slept. They all left the room quietly together. "No one would come into Gregor's room until morning. This gave him a lot of time to think. He could plan how to change his life." "He had to stay in a big, empty room. He felt scared lying on the floor. He lived there for five years but still felt this way." He did not know what he was doing but felt a little shame. He quickly went under the couch. "It pushed on his back a bit, and he could not lift his head. But he felt good right away. His only sad thought was that his body was too big to fit under it." "He stayed there all night." Sometimes he slept a little, but often woke up because he was hungry. He spent some time worrying and hoping. But, he always thought the same thing: he must stay calm now. He must be patient and very careful. This way, his family can handle the bad things he is making them go through. "Gregor soon got the chance to see how strong his choices were. Early the next morning, his sister opened the door. She was almost fully dressed and looked worried." She didn't see him at first. But when she saw him under the sofa, she was very surprised. She was so surprised that she lost control. She closed the door hard from outside. "But she looked sorry for what she did. She opened the door again right away. She walked in quietly, like she was going into a sick person's room or a stranger's room." "Gregor moved his head to the end of the couch and looked at her." "Would she see that he did not drink the milk, know that he was not full, and give him different food that he liked more?" "If she didn't give him food, he wanted to stay hungry. He didn't want to ask her. But he really wanted to run from under the couch. He wanted to fall at his sister's feet. He wanted to ask her for good food." "But, his sister saw the full dish right away. She looked at it and the small milk drops around it with surprise." "She quickly picked it up with a cloth, not her hands, and took it out." "Gregor really wanted to know what she would bring instead. He thought of many crazy things, but he never knew what his kind sister really brought." To see what he likes, she gave him many things. They were all on an old newspaper. "There were old vegetables and bones from dinner. They had hard white sauce on them. There were a few raisins and almonds. There was cheese that Gregor said was bad two days ago. There was a dry roll and some bread with butter and salt." "She also put some water in the dish. This dish was likely always used by Gregor. She put it next to them." Then, she thought about Gregor's feelings. She knew he didn't eat when she was there. So, she left quickly. She also locked the door. This way, Gregor knew he could relax as he wanted. "Gregor's small legs moved fast, and finally he could eat." "Also, his hurts are all better because he can move easily." "He was surprised. Over a month ago, he cut his finger a little with a knife. He remembered his finger still hurt two days ago." "Am I not as sensitive as I was before, then?" "He thought and started eating the cheese fast. He liked the cheese more than the other foods." He ate the cheese, vegetables, and sauce fast and with joy. He didn't like fresh foods at all. He moved the food he liked away from them because he didn't like the smell. "After he ate and lay still, his sister turned the key slowly. This told him he should leave." "He was scared and woke up fast. He quickly went back under the sofa." "But he had to be very calm to stay there. His sister was in the room for a short time. He ate a lot of food and got a bit fat. He could not breathe well in that small space." He could hardly breathe and watched his sister. She did not care and used a broom. She cleaned up the food he did not eat. She acted like it could not be used again. "She put it all in a box fast, closed it, and took it all out." "As soon as she turned away, Gregor came out from under the sofa and stretched." "Gregor got his food two times a day. He got it in the morning when his parents and the maid were sleeping. He got it again after everyone ate lunch. His parents would sleep a bit after lunch. His sister would tell the maid to do something else." "Gregor's mom and dad did not want him to be hungry. But maybe they could not handle seeing him eat. Maybe his sister did not want them to feel bad. They were already very sad." "Gregor could not know what they said to the doctor and the key maker. They said it to make them leave the flat on the first morning." "No one could understand him. Not even his sister thought he could understand her. So, he just listened to his sister's sighs and prayers when she was in his room." Later, when she got a bit used to things, Gregor sometimes heard nice words. "He liked his dinner today," she might say when he ate all his food. But if he didn't eat much, which happened a lot, she would say, "Sadly, he left his food again." "Gregor could not hear news directly. But he listened to a lot of talk from the next rooms. When he heard someone talking, he ran fast to the right door. He put his whole body against it." "People rarely talked about other things at first. They often talked about him, even in secret." For two days, they talked about what to do at every meal. But they also talked about it between meals. There were always two family members at home. No one wanted to be home alone. They did not want to leave the flat empty. "On the first day, the maid asked Gregor's mom to let her leave right away." "She didn't know much about what happened. But she left after 15 minutes. She cried and thanked Gregor's mom. She felt like she did a big favor." "She promised strongly not to tell anyone about what happened, even if no one asked her to." "Now Gregor's sister had to help his mother cook. But it was not hard because no one ate a lot." Gregor often heard one of them ask another to eat. But they would say "no thanks, I've had enough" or something like that. "No one drank a lot too." Sometimes his sister asked her dad if he wanted a beer. She hoped to get it for him. When his dad didn't speak, she said she could ask the maid to get it. But his dad just said a big "No" and nothing else was said. "Before the day ended, his father told Gregor's mother and sister about their money and future." "Sometimes he got up from the table. He took a paper from a small money box. He kept this box from his work. His work failed five years ago." "Gregor heard him open the hard lock and close it again after he took what he wanted." "What his dad said was the first good news Gregor heard since he was locked in his room." "He thought his father's business was gone. He never told him otherwise. Gregor never asked him about it." "Their business problems made the family very sad. Gregor's only job was to help them forget it fast." "So he began to work very hard. His strong energy made him go from a small salesman to a traveling salesman very quickly. This job gave him new ways to make money." "Gregor made a lot of money at work. He brought it home and his family was very happy and surprised." "They had good times that never came back. Even when Gregor made a lot of money, it was not the same. He paid for everything for his family." "Gregor and his family were used to it. They were happy to get the money. He was happy to give it. But, they did not show him much love." "Now, Gregor stayed near his sister only." "She loved music and played the violin very well, but he did not. He had a secret plan to send her to a music school next year. But, it would cost a lot of money. He would have to find a way to pay for it." "When Gregor was in town for a short time, he often talked with his sister. They talked about the music school. But they only talked about it like a nice dream that could not happen." "Their mom and dad did not like this simple talk. But Gregor thought a lot about it. He decided to tell them his plan on Christmas day." "He was thinking silly things. He was standing by the door and listening." Sometimes, he was too tired to keep listening. His head fell on the door because he was tired. He quickly lifted his head. He was careful not to make noise. If he made noise, the people next door would hear. Then, they would stop talking. "What is he doing now?" his father would ask. After some time, he would go to the door. Then, they would start talking again slowly. "When talking, his dad said things many times. This was because he had not thought about these things for a long time. Also, Gregor's mom did not understand everything at once." Gregor was happy to know that they still had some money left from before, even with all their problems. "It was not much, but no one used it for some time and it grew a little." "Also, they did not spend all the money Gregor brought home each month. He kept only a small part for himself. So, that money was also growing." "Behind the door, Gregor was happy and excited about this surprise of being careful and saving." "He could have used this extra money to pay his father's boss. Then, he could have left his job sooner. But now, his father's way was better." "But this money was not enough for the family to live on. It was only enough for maybe one or two years." In other words, this money should not be used unless there is an emergency. Money for daily life needs to be earned. "His dad was not sick but he was old, and he did not believe in himself." "In the five years he did not work, he got very fat and slow." "Will Gregor's old mother now need to go and make money?" "She had asthma and it was hard for her to move in the house. Every two days, she had trouble breathing on the sofa near the open window." "Will his sister need to go and make money?" "She was only seventeen and had a good life. She wore nice clothes, slept late, and helped in the business. She also had fun and played the violin a lot." When they started to talk about making money, Gregor would first open the door. Then, he would throw himself on the cool, leather sofa. He felt very hot because he was very ashamed and sorry. "He often lay there all night, not sleeping at all but scratching the leather for hours." "Or he may push a chair to the window. He climbs up and sits on the sill. He sits in the chair and leans on the window. He looks out of it." He used to feel free when he did this. But now, it felt more like a memory. What he saw was getting less clear every day. Even close things were hard to see. He used to hate seeing the hospital across the street. But now, he couldn't see it at all. He knew he lived on a quiet street in the city. But when he looked out the window, it looked like a grey, empty place. The grey sky and the grey ground looked the same. "His sister saw the chair by the window two times. After that, she always moved it back there when she cleaned the room. She even left the window open." "If Gregor could talk to his sister and say thank you, it would be easier for him. But he couldn't, so it hurt him." "His sister tried to act like it was not hard. As time passed, she got better at it. But Gregor also started to understand it more." Now, he felt very bad when she came into the room. "As soon as she came in, she shut the door fast. She did this so no one could see into Gregor's room. Then, she went to the window and opened it fast. It was like she could not breathe." "Even when it was cold, she stayed by the window and took deep breaths for a bit." "She scared Gregor two times a day with her loud noise. He hid under the couch, shaking all the time. He knew she didn't want to scare him, but she couldn't be in the room with him when the windows were shut." "One day, a month after Gregor changed, his sister was not scared of him anymore. She came into the room earlier than normal. She saw him looking out the window. He was not moving and looked very bad." Gregor was not shocked that his sister did not come in the room. It would be hard for her to open the window with him there. But she did not just stay out, she also closed the door. Someone might think Gregor scared her or tried to hurt her. "Gregor quickly hid under the couch and waited. His sister came back at noon. She looked more worried than normal." "He saw that she did not like how he looked. She may have wanted to run away when she saw him under the couch." "One day, he wanted to hide from his sister. He took four hours to move the bedsheet to the couch. He put it on his back. He made sure it covered him fully. His sister could not see him, even if she looked down." "If she thought the sheet was not needed, she could take it off. It was clear that Gregor did not like to be fully hidden." "She did not move the sheet." "Once, Gregor thought he saw his sister happy with the new setup when he looked from under the sheet." "For the first 14 days, Gregor's parents did not want to go into his room." "He often heard them say they liked his sister's new work. Before, they thought she was not good and often got mad at her." "But now, the father and mother often waited outside Gregor's room. His sister cleaned inside. When she came out, she told them about the room. She said what Gregor ate and how he acted. She also said if he was a bit better." "His mother also wanted to see Gregor soon. But his father and sister first told her not to." "Gregor heard all this very well and liked it a lot." "Later, she had to be stopped. She said: Let me see Gregor, he is my sad son!" "Don't you know I need to see him?" "Gregor thought it might be good if his mother came in once a week. She could understand things better than his sister. His sister was brave but still a child. She might not know how hard her job was." "Gregor soon got his wish to see his mother." Gregor did not want his parents to see him at the window. He had a small space to move on the floor. It was hard for him to stay still at night. He did not like his food anymore. So, he started to have fun by moving up and down the walls and ceiling. "He loved to hang from the ceiling. It was not like lying on the floor. He could breathe better. His body felt light and moved a bit. Up there, he felt calm and almost happy. Sometimes, he would even surprise himself. He would let go of the ceiling and fall to the floor with a loud noise." "But now, he could control his body much better than before. Even when he fell from high up, he did not hurt himself." Soon his sister saw Gregor's new game. He left foot marks when he moved. She wanted to help him. So, she took away the furniture that blocked him, like the desk and the drawers. "Now, she could not do this alone. She was scared to ask her dad for help. The young maid was brave after the cook left. But she would not help with this. She even asked to keep the kitchen locked. She only wanted to open the door if it was very important. So his sister had to find a time when their dad was not home. Then she could get their mom to help her." "When she got near the room, Gregor heard his mom being happy. But when she reached the door, she stopped talking." "First, his sister came in. She looked around to make sure everything was okay. Then, she let her mother come in." "Gregor quickly pulled the sheet down on the couch. He made more folds in it to make it look messy." "Gregor did not look from under the sheet this time. He did not see his mother now but was happy she came." "His sister said, "You can come in, he can't be seen". She held her hand and led her in. The old chest was too heavy for two weak women to move. But Gregor heard them move it. His sister did the hardest work and did not listen to her mother. Her mother said she would hurt herself. "This went on for a long time." His mom worked on it for fifteen minutes. Then she said it was best to leave the box where it was. It was too heavy for them to move before Gregor's dad came home. If they left it in the room, it would be in his way. Also, they were not sure if moving the furniture would help him. "She felt sad when she saw the empty walls. She thought, why wouldn't Gregor feel the same? He had this furniture for a long time. Being in an empty room would make him feel alone." "Then, she spoke softly. She didn't know where Gregor was. She thought he didn't understand her words. She said, 'If we take his things, will it look like we have no hope? Are we leaving him alone to deal with things?'" "I think we should not change the room. When Gregor comes back, he will see it is the same. He can forget the past easier this way." When his mom spoke, Gregor understood. He had no talks with people and his family's boring life for two months made him mixed up. This is why he wanted his room empty. "Did he really want to change his room into a cave, a warm room with the nice furniture he got?" "That would let him move freely in any way. But, it would also make him forget his past when he was a person." "He almost forgot, but his mother's voice, which he had not heard for a long time, made him remember." "Nothing should be taken away. Everything had to stay. He needed the good effect the furniture had on him. If the furniture made it hard for him to move, it was not bad. It was very good." "His sister did not agree. She was used to speaking for Gregor to their parents. She talked about things that were important to him." "This meant his mom's advice was enough for her to want to take out all the furniture. She wanted to keep only the very important couch." She wasn't just being difficult or brave. She saw that Gregor needed space to move. The furniture didn't help him at all. "Girls at that age can get very excited about things and want to always get what they want." "Maybe Grete wanted to make Gregor's problem look worse so she could help him more." "Grete might be the only one brave enough to go into a room where Gregor is crawling on the empty walls alone." "So she did not let her mother change her mind." "Gregor's mom looked worried in his room. She stopped talking soon. She helped Gregor's sister move the big box. She used all her power." Gregor did not need the chest of drawers, but he needed the writing desk. The two women moved the big box out of the room with difficulty. Then, Gregor looked out from under the sofa to see how he could help. "He tried to be very careful and kind. But, sadly, his mom came back first. Grete was in the next room. She was trying to move the big box alone. But, of course, she could not move it at all." "His mother was not okay seeing Gregor. He could have made her sick. So, Gregor quickly moved to the end of the sofa." He was surprised and could not stop the front sheet from moving a bit. "It was enough to make his mother look." "She stood without moving, stayed there for a bit, and then went back to Grete." "Gregor told himself that nothing strange was happening, just some furniture being moved. But soon, he had to say that the women moving around, their small talks, and the noise of the furniture made him feel attacked from all sides." His head and legs were close to his body on the floor. He knew he could not do this for much longer. They were cleaning his room and taking his things. They took his tool box. Now, they wanted to take his desk. He used this desk for school and work. He could not wait to see if the women were nice. "He almost forgot they were there. They were too tired to talk while working. He only heard their loud steps on the floor." "So, while the women rested near the desk in the other room, he went out. He turned four times, not sure what to save first. Then he saw the picture on the wall. It was a picture of a lady in a lot of fur. Everything else from the wall was gone." "He ran to the picture and pushed his body on the glass. It felt nice and cool on his warm belly." "No one would take this picture that Gregor now fully covers." "He turned his head to look at the door. He did this to see the women when they returned." "They did not rest for a long time and came back fast. Grete put her arm around her mom and almost carried her." "What should we take now?" ", Grete said and looked around." "Her eyes looked at Gregor on the wall." "Maybe she stayed calm only because her mom was there. She turned her face to her mom so she wouldn't look around. She said quickly and with a shaky voice: Let's go back to the living room, okay?" Gregor saw what Grete wanted to do. She wanted to take her mom to a safe place. Then, she wanted to make him come down from the wall. "Well, she can surely try it!" "He sat without moving on his picture." "He wants to jump at Grete's face more." "But Grete's words made her mother very worried. She moved to one side and saw a big brown spot on the flower wallpaper. She screamed before she knew it was Gregor she saw: Oh God, oh God!" She opened her arms and fell on the sofa. She looked like she gave up and didn't move. "Gregor!" "His sister yelled at him and shook her fist," she said angrily. "That was the first word she said to him after he changed." "She went to another room to get something to wake her mom up. Gregor wanted to help too. He wanted to save his picture later, but he was stuck to the glass. He had to pull hard to get off. Then he ran to the next room like he used to do. But he could only stand behind her and do nothing. She was looking at many bottles. He scared her when she turned around. A bottle fell and broke. A piece cut Gregor's face. Something bad splashed on him. Now, Grete took all the bottles she could. She ran to her mom with them. She closed the door with her foot." Gregor was now away from his mother. She might be very sick because of him. He could not open the door. He did not want his sister to leave. His sister had to be with his mother. He could only wait. He felt very worried and sorry. He started to crawl around. He crawled on walls, furniture, and the ceiling. He was very confused. The room seemed to spin around him. He fell down onto the dinner table. "He lay there for some time, not moving. It was very quiet around him. Maybe this was a good thing." Then someone was at the door. The maid locked herself in the kitchen. So, Grete had to go and open the door. "His dad came home." "What happened?" "His first words were about Grete. He must have understood everything from how she looked." "She spoke to him in a soft voice and put her face on his chest. Mom fainted, but she is okay now." "Gregor went out." "Like I thought," said his dad, "I always said this, but you ladies didn't listen, did you." Gregor knew that Grete did not talk enough. His father thought he did something bad. This meant Gregor had to make his father calm. He did not have time to explain things, even if he could. He ran to his room's door and stood against it. His dad could see him when he came in. Gregor wanted to show he was good and would go back to his room fast. He didn't need to be pushed back. They just had to open the door and he would go. "His father, however, did not feel like seeing small things like that. Oh!" "He yelled when he came in. He sounded both mad and happy at the same time." "Gregor moved his head away from the door and raised it to his dad." "He had not thought his father would look like this. Recently, he was too busy to see what was happening in the rest of the house." "He should have known things would change, but was that really his dad?" The same tired man used to lay in bed when Gregor came home. He would sit in his chair in his night clothes in the evening. He could not stand up well, but he would lift his arms to show he was happy. A few times a year, they would go for a walk on a holiday. He would wear a big coat and walk slowly with Gregor and his mom. They would walk slow for him. He would put his stick down with care. If he wanted to talk, he would stop and everyone would come to him. "He was standing tall now. He wore a nice blue uniform with gold buttons. This is what bank workers wear. His big double-chin showed above the coat's high, hard collar. His sharp, dark eyes looked out under his thick eyebrows. They were fresh and alert. His usually messy white hair was combed down tight to his head." "He picked up his hat with a gold sign. It was maybe from a bank. He threw it across the room onto the couch. He put his hands in his pants pockets. He pushed back his long coat. He looked strong and walked to Gregor." "He maybe did not know what he was thinking. But he still lifted his feet very high." "Gregor was surprised by how big his boots were, but did not think about it. He knew from his first day of new life, his father was always very strict with him." "So, he ran to his dad. He stopped when his dad stopped. He ran again when his dad moved a little." "They walked around the room many times. But nothing big happened. It did not look like a chase because everything was slow." "Gregor stayed on the floor all this time. He was scared his dad would be very angry if he ran onto the wall or ceiling." No matter what, Gregor knew he could not run for long. His dad took one step, but he had to move many times. "He got tired and could not breathe well. Even before, his lungs were not good." "Now, he tried hard to get strength for running but could barely keep his eyes open. His thoughts were too slow to think of another way to save himself than running. He almost forgot that he could use the walls, even though they were hidden behind big, bumpy furniture. Then, something fell and rolled in front of him." An apple hit him. Then, another apple flew at him fast. Gregor could not move, he was very scared. His father wanted to throw more, so running was not useful. "He put fruit in his pockets from the bowl. Then, he quickly threw one apple after another." "These small, red apples moved around on the floor. They hit each other like they had motors." "An apple hit Gregor's back softly and fell off without hurting him." But right after, another one hit his back and stayed there. Gregor wanted to move away. He thought he could stop the big, strange pain by moving. But he felt stuck and spread out. He was very confused. The last thing he saw was his room door opening. His sister was yelling. His mom ran out in her shirt. She had taken off some clothes to breathe easier after fainting. She ran to his dad with her skirts falling down. She tripped over the skirts but kept going to his dad. She hugged him tightly. She put her hands behind his head and asked him to not hurt Gregor. Then, Gregor could not see anything. "No one was brave to take out the apple stuck in Gregor's body. So, it stayed there to show his hurt." "He was sick for more than a month. His sickness was so bad that even his father remembered that Gregor, even though he looked sad and bad now, was still part of the family and should not be treated badly." As a family, we had to hide our bad feelings for him and wait. We just had to wait. Gregor was hurt and lost a lot of his ability to move. It might be forever. "He was very old and sick. It took him a long time to move across his room. He could not crawl on the ceiling. But he was happy because the door to the living room was open every night." "He started to watch it for one or two hours before it opened. Then, he lay in his dark room where no one from the living room could see him. He could see his family at the dinner table and hear them talk. Everyone let him do this, so it was not like before." "They did not talk like before. Gregor missed these talks. He thought about them when he was tired. He was in a wet bed in a small hotel room." "They were all very quiet these days." After dinner, his dad would sleep in his chair. His mom and sister would tell each other to be quiet. His mom would sew nice clothes under a lamp. She made these clothes for a fashion store. His sister had a job selling things. In the night, she learned short writing and French. She did this to get a better job later. "Sometimes his dad would wake up and tell Gregor's mom, 'you are sewing a lot today!'" "It was like he didn't know he was sleeping. Then, he would sleep again. His mother and sister would smile at each other, feeling tired." Gregor's father was very stubborn. He didn't take off his work clothes at home. His night clothes stayed on the hook. He slept in his work clothes. It was like he was always ready to work. He thought he might hear his boss's voice at home. "The uniform was not new at first, but it got more old and worn. This happened even though Gregor's mother and sister tried to take care of it." "Gregor often looked at the stains on the coat all evening. The coat had shiny gold buttons. The old man in the coat was sleeping. He was not comfortable but he was calm." "When the clock hit ten, Gregor's mom would softly tell his dad to wake up. She would ask him to go to bed because he couldn't sleep well where he was. He really needed to sleep to wake up at six for work." "But since he started working, he became more stubborn. He always wanted to sit at the table longer, even if he often fell asleep. It was then very hard to make him leave his chair and go to bed." "Then, no matter how much mom and sister asked him with small complaints and warnings, he would just slowly shake his head for fifteen minutes with his eyes shut and not want to get up." "Gregor's mom pulled his sleeve and spoke softly to him. Gregor's sister stopped her work to help her mom. But nothing changed Gregor." "He would just sit lower in his chair." When the two women held him, he opened his eyes fast. He looked at them and said, "What a life!" "This is the peace I have in my old age!" With help from the two women, he would stand up slowly. He acted like he was holding a heavy thing. He let the women take him to the door. Then, he told them to leave. He went on alone. Gregor's mom dropped her needle. His sister put down her pen. They ran to help their dad. "Who in this tired family could give Gregor more time than they had to?" The family had less money so they let the maid go. A big, strong woman with white hair came every morning and evening. She did the hard work. Gregor's mother did the rest. She also did a lot of sewing. Gregor heard his family talk at night. They hoped for a good price for some family jewels. They had to sell them. His mother and sister loved to wear them at parties. "But the biggest problem was this: even though the apartment was too big for them now, they couldn't leave. They had no idea how to move Gregor to a new place." He saw that there were many reasons why they couldn't move. It was not hard to put him in a box with holes. But, the family was very sad. They felt they had very bad luck. No one they knew had such bad luck. "They did all the things poor people do. Gregor's dad gave breakfast to bank workers. His mom washed clothes for people she didn't know. His sister worked hard at her desk for customers. But they were too tired to do more." "And Gregor's back injury started to hurt like when it was new." After putting his dad to bed, Gregor's mom and sister stopped working. They sat very close. His mom pointed to Gregor's room and said, "Close that door, Grete". Then, when it was dark again, they sat in the next room. They cried together or just sat and looked at the table. "Gregor did not sleep much, not in the day or night." Sometimes he thought about running the family's work like before. When the door opened next time, he remembered his boss and main worker. He also thought of the salesmen, the new workers, a silly tea boy, and some friends. He remembered a hotel worker, a memory that came and went, and a shop worker he liked but was too slow for. He saw them with strangers and people he forgot. But they could not help him and his family, and he was happy when they were gone. Sometimes he did not want to care for his family. He was very angry because no one noticed him. He did not know what he wanted, but he thought about going to the food room. He wanted to take all the food he could, even if he was not hungry. "Gregor's sister did not try to make him happy anymore. She quickly gave him food in his room with her foot. Then, she went to work in the morning and at noon. In the evening, she cleaned his room with a broom. She did not care if he ate the food or not." "She still cleaned the room at night, but now she did it very fast." "Dirt marks were on the walls, and small balls of dust were everywhere." "At first, Gregor went to a very bad place when his sister came. He did this to make her feel bad. But he could have stayed there for many weeks. His sister did not do anything about it. She saw the dirt just like he did. But she chose to let him stay there." "At the same time, she became sensitive in a new way. Everyone in the family knew this. Cleaning Gregor's room was only for her." "Gregor's mom cleaned his room well once, using many buckets of water. But the wet room made Gregor sick. He lay on the sofa, upset and not moving." "But his mother got more punishment for what she did. When his sister came home at night, she saw Gregor's room was different. She was very upset and ran back to the living room. Even though her mother was begging, she started crying very hard." Her dad was scared and fell from his chair. Both parents were shocked and didn't know what to do. They also started to get upset. Gregor's dad, who was standing next to his mom, said she should not clean Gregor's room. His sister should do it. From the other side, Gregor's sister yelled at her mom. She told her not to clean Gregor's room again. His mom tried to take his angry dad to the bedroom. His sister was crying a lot and hit the table with her small hands. Gregor was angry because no one closed the door. He didn't want to see or hear all of this. "Gregor's sister was very tired from her job. Taking care of Gregor like before was more work. But his mother should not have done her job." "But, we should not forget about Gregor." "Now, the cleaning woman was here." "This old woman, who was strong and could handle hard things in her life, was not scared of Gregor." One day, she opened Gregor's room door by chance, not because she was curious. She saw him right in front of her. "He was very surprised. No one was after him, but he started to run around. She just stood there, shocked, with her hands in front of her." From that time, she always opened the door a little every night and morning to look at him quickly. "At first, she would call him in a nice way. She would say, come here, you old bug!" ", or look at that old bug there!" "Gregor did not answer when talked to like that. He just stayed still as if the door was not opened." "If only they asked the cleaning lady to clean his room every day! But they let her bother him for no reason when she wanted to." "One day, early in the morning, it rained hard on the windows. She thought spring was coming. She started to talk to him in that way again." "Gregor was very angry and started to go to her. He was slow and weak, but it seemed like he wanted to fight." The cleaning lady was not scared. She picked up a chair near the door. She stood there with her mouth open. She planned to keep her mouth open until she hit Gregor's back with the chair. "Aren't you coming closer?" "She asked when Gregor turned again. Then, she put the chair back in the corner calmly." "Gregor almost stopped eating all his food." "If he was near his food, he might play with it in his mouth. He would keep it there for a few hours. Then, he often spit it out." "At first, he thought his messy room made him not want to eat. But he soon got used to the changes." "They started to put things in this room when they had no space. Now, there are many things because they rented one room to three men." "These serious men - all three had big beards, Gregor saw one day looking through the door - really wanted things to be clean." "This meant not just in their room, but in the whole flat. This was especially true in the kitchen." They did not like mess, especially if it was dirty. "They also brought a lot of their own furniture and tools with them." "So, many things were not needed. The family could not sell them but did not want to throw them away." "All these things went into Gregor's room." "The kitchen dustbins also ended up there." The cleaning lady was always fast. If she didn't need something, she put it there. "Luckily, he usually only saw the thing and the hand holding it." "The woman wanted to pick up the things when she had time. She also thought to throw everything out at once. But, the things stayed where they fell at first. They only moved if Gregor moved them." "At first, he moved it because he had to. There was no other free room for him to move around. But later, he started to like it. Even though it made him feel sad and very tired. After moving, he would stay still for hours." "The men who lived in the room sometimes ate dinner at home. They ate in the room that everyone used. So, the door to this room was often closed at night." "But Gregor did not mind closing the door. He often did not use it when it was open. He stayed in the darkest corner of his room without his family knowing." Once, the cleaning lady did not close the living room door well. It stayed open when the men who lived there came home at night and turned on the light. "They sat at the table where Gregor used to eat with his mom and dad. They opened the napkins and picked up their knives and forks." "Gregor's mom came to the door with a plate of meat. Soon, his sister came with a plate full of potatoes." "The food was hot and made the room smell good." The men looked at the food on their plates before eating. The man in the middle cut a piece of meat. He wanted to see if it was cooked well or needed more cooking. He was happy. Gregor's mom and sister were worried but they started to smile again. "The family ate in the kitchen." "Still, Gregor's dad came into the living room. He went to the kitchen next. He bowed once with his hat in his hand. Then, he walked around the table." The men stood together and said something quietly. "Then, when they were alone, they ate without making much noise." Gregor found it strange that he could hear them chewing. He thought they were showing him that teeth are needed to eat. Without teeth, even nice jaws can't do anything. "Gregor said worriedly, I want to eat something, but not what they are eating." "They eat their own food." "And here I am, I am dying!" For a long time, Gregor did not hear the violin. But tonight, he heard it from the kitchen. "The three men had already eaten. The man in the middle gave a newspaper page to the other two. Now, they sat back in their chairs, read, and smoked." "When the violin started, they paid attention. They stood up and walked quietly to the door. There, they stood close to each other." "Someone may have heard them in the kitchen. Gregor's dad asked: 'Do the men not like the music?'" "We can stop it right now." "No," said the man in the middle, "Does the girl not want to come in and play for us? It's nicer and more comfy here." "Yes, we would love to," Gregor's father said, like he was the one playing the violin. The men went back into the room and waited. "Gregor's dad came with the music stand, his mom with the music, and his sister with the violin." "She got ready to play in a calm way. His parents were very polite to the three men. They had never rented a room before. They didn't sit on their chairs. His father stood by the door. He put his hand on his coat. One man gave his mother a chair. She sat in a corner, where the man put the chair." "His sister started to play. Their dad and mom watched her hands closely, one on each side." Gregor liked the music, so he moved closer. His head was now in the living room. Before, he was very proud of being kind. But now, he didn't think about how he was not kind to others. Also, he had to hide more now. He was dirty from the dust in his room. The dust flew up when he moved. He had strings, hairs, and food bits on his back and sides. He did not care about anything now. He did not clean himself on the carpet like he used to do many times a day. "And even with this problem, he was not too scared to step a bit on the very clean living room floor." "But no one saw him." The family was very busy with the violin music. At first, the three men put their hands in their pockets. They came too close to the music stand to see the notes. They may have bothered Gregor's sister. But soon, they moved back to the window. They looked down and talked softly to each other. They stayed by the window. Gregor's father watched them with worry. "They thought they would hear nice violin music but were let down. They didn't like the show and only stayed to be polite." "It was very scary how they all blew smoke from their cigarettes up from their mouth and nose." "But Gregor's sister was playing very well." "Her face was turned to one side, looking at the music with a sad and careful look." "Gregor moved forward a bit more, keeping his head low. He wanted to look into her eyes if he got a chance." "Was he a beast if music could hold him like this?" "He felt like he was being shown the way to the new food he had been wanting." "He wanted to go to his sister and pull her skirt. He wanted to show her that she can come into his room with her violin. No one liked her music here as much as he did." "He didn't want her to leave his room while he was alive. His scary look could help him this time. He wanted to be at all doors to scare away people. His sister should stay with him because she wants to, not because she has to. She would sit next to him and listen to him. He would tell her about his plan to send her to music school. He wanted to tell everyone last Christmas. Did Christmas already happen?" "- if this bad thing didn't happen, and he didn't let anyone change his mind." When she heard this, his sister cried. Gregor climbed up to her shoulder and kissed her neck. She didn't wear a necklace or collar to work. "Mr." "Samsa!" "The man in the middle shouted at Gregor's father. He pointed at Gregor who was moving slowly." "The violin stopped playing. One man in the middle of three men first smiled at his two friends. He shook his head. Then he looked at Gregor." "His dad wanted to make the three men feel okay before making Gregor leave. Even though the men were not upset, they found Gregor more fun than the violin music." "He ran to them with his arms wide. He tried to push them back into their room. He also tried to hide Gregor with his body." "Now they were a bit upset. It was not clear if they were upset because of his father's actions or because they just found out that they had a neighbor like Gregor next door and they did not know it." "They asked Gregor's dad for answers. They moved their arms like he did. They pulled on their beards in excitement. They walked back to their room very slowly." "Meanwhile, Gregor's sister got over the sadness she felt when her playing was suddenly stopped." She stopped playing the violin and looked at the music. She then put the violin on her mother's lap. Her mother was having trouble breathing. She ran into the next room. Her father and three men were also going there. "His sister was good at making beds. She quickly fixed the pillows and covers. She finished and left before the three men came into the room." "Gregor's dad was so busy with his work that he forgot to be nice to his renters." "He asked them again and again. When he was near the room door, one man shouted very loud. He stamped his foot. This made Gregor's father stop." "He said, 'I say now,' and lifted his hand. He looked at Gregor's mom and sister. 'I don't like this flat and family,' he said, looking at the floor. 'I will leave my room now.'" "I have lived here for days and I won't pay anything. In fact, I might ask you to pay me for some problems. Trust me, it would be easy to explain why." "He was quiet and looked straight. It was like he was waiting for something." "And yes, his two friends said: We also tell you right now." He grabbed the door handle and shut the door hard. "Gregor's dad walked back to his chair and fell into it. It looked like he was getting ready for his usual night sleep. But his head kept moving in a strange way. It showed that he was not sleeping at all." All this time, Gregor stayed where the three men first saw him. "He was sad because his plan did not work. He was also very hungry. This made it hard for him to move." "He knew that all people would be against him soon. He waited." "He was not scared when his mom's violin fell from her shaking hands and hit the floor hard." "Father, Mother," his sister said. She hit the table with her hand. "We can't keep going like this." "Maybe you can't see it, but I can." "I don't want to say this bad thing is my brother. But we must try to make it go away." "We did all we could to take care of it and wait. I don't think anyone can say we did something bad." "Gregor's father said to himself, she is really right." "His mom was still out of breath and started to cough. She put her hand in front of her and looked very scared." "Gregor's sister ran to their mom and touched her head." "Her words helped Gregor's father to think more clearly." "He sat up straight, played with his hat, and sometimes looked at Gregor. Gregor was not moving and there were plates from three men's food." "Gregor's sister said to her father, "We need to remove it. She said this because her mother was busy coughing. "It will kill both of you. I can see it happening." "We can't work hard and then come home to bad things. We can't handle it." "I can't take it any more." "And she cried so much that her tears fell on her mother's face. She wiped them off with her hand." "My child," her father said kindly, "what should we do?" "His sister just moved her shoulders. She felt very sad and lost, not sure like before." "Can he understand us?" his father asked. His sister cried and shook her head, showing he could not. "Gregor's father said, 'If he could understand us, maybe we could make a plan with him.' He closed his eyes and knew his sister was right. It was not possible." "But it is like this." "." "." "Father, it must go," his sister yelled, "that's the only way." "You need to stop thinking that's Gregor." "We hurt ourselves by thinking it for a long time." "Is that really Gregor?" "If Gregor was here, he would know we can't live with that animal. He would have left by himself." "We would not have a brother then, but we could live and remember him with respect." "This animal is bothering us. It made our renters leave. It clearly wants to have our whole flat. It wants to make us sleep on the streets." "Dad, look, just look," she yelled suddenly, "he is starting again!" His sister was very scared. She did not understand Gregor. She left their mother. She pushed herself out of her chair. She did not want to be near Gregor. "She ran to her dad, who was excited because she was. He stood up and put his hands up to keep Gregor's sister safe." "But Gregor did not want to scare anyone, especially not his sister." "He only started to turn to go back to his room. This was surprising because he was in a lot of pain. Turning was hard work for him. He used his head to help him turn. He lifted his head and hit it on the floor many times." "He stopped and looked around." "They saw his good plan and were scared for a short time." "Now they all looked at him and they were not happy." "His mom was tired and sat in her chair with her legs together. His sister was next to his dad with her arms around him." "Maybe they will let me turn now," Gregor thought and went back to work. "He was very tired and had to stop to rest sometimes." "No one made him hurry now, everything was his choice." "When he finished turning, he started to move forward." "He was surprised by how far his room was. He did not know how he got there before when he was weak and did not see it." "He tried to crawl very fast. He did not hear his family say anything to stop him." "He did not look back until he got to the door." "He didn't turn all the way because his neck hurt. But he saw that nothing changed behind him. Only his sister stood up." In his last look, he saw his mother was now fully asleep. "He went into his room and quickly shut, bolted, and locked the door." "The loud noise behind Gregor scared him and made his small legs give out." "His sister was the one who was in a big hurry." "She was standing there and waiting. Then, she moved fast. Gregor did not hear her. She turned the key in the lock. She said to her parents, 'At last!'" "." "What do we do now?" "Gregor asked himself something when he looked around in the dark." "He soon found out that he could not move at all." "He was not surprised. He thought it was strange to walk with his thin, small legs before." "He also felt quite comfortable." "His whole body hurt, but the pain was slowly going away and would soon be gone." "He could not really feel the bad apple on his back or the sore area around it, which was all covered in white dust." "He remembered his family with feelings and love." "If he could, he felt he needed to leave more than his sister." "He stayed calm and quiet until he heard the big clock say it was three in the morning." "He saw it slowly start to get light outside the window too." Then, he did not want it, but his head fell down. His last breath came out softly from his nose. The cleaner came early in the morning. She often slammed the doors even when asked not to. This woke everyone up. They knew she was there and could not sleep well. She looked at Gregor as she always did. At first, she saw nothing strange. "She thought he was not moving on purpose, acting like a victim. She believed he knew everything." "She had a long broom in her hand. She tried to tickle Gregor with it from the door." "When she did not win, she tried to bother him. She pushed him a bit. But when she could push him and he did not stop her, she started to care." "She knew what happened. She opened her eyes big and made a sound. But she did not wait. She opened the bedroom doors fast and yelled into the dark rooms: Come and see this, it is dead, just lying there, very dead!" "Mr." "and Mrs." "Samsa sat up in bed. He was shocked by the cleaner. He had to try hard to understand her words." "But then, they quickly got out of bed, each from their own side." "Mr." "Samsa put the blanket on his shoulders, Mrs." "Samsa came out in her nightdress. That's how they went into Gregor's room." "They walked and opened the door to the room. Grete was sleeping there after three men came to live. She was wearing all her clothes like she did not sleep at all. Her face was very pale and it looked like she did not sleep." "Dead?" ", asked Mrs." "Samsa looked at the cleaning lady. She could have checked herself and known it without looking." "I said that," the cleaner said. She pushed Gregor's body with the broom again. This made him move across the floor. "Mrs." "Samsa tried to stop the broom, but she did not do it." "Now, Mr. said," "Samsa, let's say thank you to God for this." "He made a cross sign on himself, and the three women did the same." Grete, looking at the dead body, said: "See how thin he was." "He did not eat for a long time." "The food came out the same way it went in." "Gregor's body was very dry and flat. They did not see it before, but now he did not stand on his small legs. He did not do anything to make them look away." "Grete, come with us here for a bit," said Mrs. "Samsa smiled sadly and Grete went with her parents to the bedroom. But she looked back at the body." The cleaner closed the door and opened the window a lot. "Even though it was early morning, the air felt a bit warm." "It was the end of March already." The three men left their room and looked for their breakfasts. They were surprised because no one remembered them. "Where is our morning food?" "The man in the middle asked the cleaner in an angry way." "She put her finger on her lips. She made a quiet sign to the men. She showed they can come into Gregor's room." "They did it and stood near Gregor's dead body. Their hands were in their old coat pockets." The room was now very bright. Then the bedroom door opened and Mr. "Samsa came in his work clothes. His wife was on one side and his daughter on the other." "They all cried a bit. Sometimes, Grete put her face on her father's arm." "Go away from my house." "Now!" ", said the man." "Samsa points to the door and does not let the women leave him." "What do you mean?" ", asked the man in the middle of the three, a bit confused, and he smiled nicely." The other two put their hands behind their backs. They kept rubbing them together, happy for a big fight they could win. "I said what I mean," Mr. answered. "Samsa and his two friends walked straight to the man." At first, he just stood there. He looked at the ground like he was thinking hard. "Okay, we will go then," he said, and looked at Mr. "Samsa felt shy all of a sudden and wanted to ask Mr. for permission again." "Samsa made a choice." "Mr." "Samsa just opened his eyes big and nodded to him a few times." "Right away, the man walked fast into the front hall. His two friends had stopped moving their hands. They were listening to the talk." "Now they jumped off after their friend, scared that Mr." "Samsa may walk to the hall before them and stop talking to their boss." "When they got there, all three took their hats and sticks. They said nothing, bowed, and left." "Mr." "Samsa and the two women went out to the landing. But they did not think the men were bad. They looked over the landing. They saw the three men go down the steps slowly but without stopping." "When they went around each floor, they were gone and came back after a bit. The more they went down, the less the Samsa family cared about them. A boy from the butcher shop walked by them. He held a tray on his head and stood tall. He was closer to them than Mr. Samsa." "Samsa and the women left the landing. They went back into the flat and felt better." "They chose to relax and walk that day. They needed a break from work and they really needed it." "So they sat at the table and wrote three sorry letters, sir." "Samsa talks to his bosses, Mrs." "Samsa talks to her worker and Grete talks to her boss." "The cleaner came in when they were writing. She told them she was leaving because she finished her morning work." At first, they just said yes without looking up from their writing. But when the cleaner did not leave, they looked up and felt annoyed. "Well?" ", Mr. asked." "Samsa." The cleaning lady stood at the door. She was smiling like she had great news. But, she would only tell if asked. "The small feather on her hat stood up. It annoyed Mr." "Samsa moved slowly in all ways while she worked for them." "What do you want then?" ", asked Mrs." "The cleaner had a lot of respect for Samsa." "Yes," she said, and laughed so much she couldn't talk right away. "Don't worry about that thing inside. You don't need to think about how to remove it." "That is all fixed now." "Mrs." "Samsa and Grete looked at their letters. They wanted to keep writing." "Samsa saw that the cleaner wanted to talk about everything. But he showed with his hand that she should not." "So, she could not tell them everything. She remembered she was in a rush. She was upset and said 'Goodbye then, everyone'. She turned fast and left. She closed the door hard when she left." "Tonight she loses her job," said Mr. "Samsa got no answer from his wife or daughter. The cleaning lady had broken the quiet they just got." "They stood up and walked to the window. There, they stayed with their arms around each other." "Mr." "Samsa turned in his chair to see them and sat watching for some time." Then he shouted: Come here, then. "Let's not think about the old things, okay." "Come and give me some time." "The two women did what he said right away. They went to him, kissed him, and hugged him. Then they finished their letters fast." "After that, the three of them left the flat together. They had not done this for months. They took the tram to the country outside the town." "They were alone in the tram and it was full of warm sunlight." They sat back in their seats and talked about their jobs. They saw that their jobs were not bad. Before, they never talked about their work. But all three had good jobs. These jobs could be better in the future. "The best change for now would be to move house. They needed a smaller, cheaper flat. Gregor picked the old one. They wanted a new one in a better place and more useful." "Grete was getting more active all the time." "They had been worried and her face was pale. But while they talked, Mr." "and Mrs." Samsa saw that their daughter was becoming a strong and pretty young girl. "They got more quiet." "Just by looking at each other, they knew it was time to find a good man for her." "And, like their new dreams and good plans were right, when they got to the place, Grete was the first to stand up and move her young body."