At fifteen, Maya was a quiet girl who sat in the back of the classroom. She never spoke up. She thought she was too small to make a difference. But when she learned about climate change, everything changed.

Maya was eight years old when her teacher showed the class films about the environment. The films showed plastic in the ocean. They showed polar bears with no food. They showed forests burning. Maya cried through all the movies. Her classmates were sad when they watched the films. But when the films stopped, her classmates started thinking about other things. Maya could not do that. Those pictures stayed in her head.

Maya kept thinking about climate change. She wondered if she would have a future. She kept these worries to herself because she was not much of a talker. That was not healthy. Maya became very depressed. She stopped going to school.

When Maya was home, her parents took care of her. They started talking because they had nothing else to do. Maya told them about her worries. She told them about the climate crisis. It felt good to get that off her chest.

Her parents told her everything would be all right. That did not help, of course. But it was good to talk. Maya kept talking about climate change. She showed her parents pictures and graphs. She showed them films and articles. After a while, her parents started listening. That was when Maya realized she could make a difference.

Maya got out of her depression by thinking: it is just a waste of time feeling this way. I can do so much good with my life. I am trying to do that still now.

Maya discovered she had powers of persuasion. Her mother gave up flying, which changed her career. Her father became a vegetarian. Over the years, her father ran out of arguments. Maya kept showing him documentaries. They read books together. Before that, her father did not have a clue. He thought the climate issue was sorted. Maya changed her family. Now she was changing other people too.

One day in August, Maya painted a sign on a piece of wood. She wrote down some facts she thought everyone should know. Then she took her bike to the parliament building. She sat there alone. The first day, she sat alone from eight thirty in the morning until three in the afternoon. That was the regular school day. On the second day, people started joining her. After that, there were people there all the time.

Maya kept her promise to strike every day. Afterwards, she agreed to make a speech in front of thousands of people. Her parents were reluctant. Maya had been so quiet that doctors had diagnosed her with selective mutism. Her parents tried to talk her out of it. But Maya was determined. In some cases where I am really passionate, I will not change my mind, she said.

Despite her family's concerns, Maya delivered the speech in nearly perfect English. She invited the crowd to film her on their phones. She asked them to spread the message through social media. Her father cried with pride.

Maya's quietness was not something she wanted to change. It was just who she was. If she had been like everyone else, she would have tried to start an organization. But she could not do that. She was not very good with people. So she did something herself instead.

Now that Maya was active on climate, she was no longer lonely. She was no longer silent. She was no longer so depressed. She was too busy trying to make a difference. And she was enjoying herself.

It is going to be very big internationally, Maya said. Hundreds of thousands of children will strike from school. They will say we are not going to accept this anymore. I think we are only seeing the beginning. I think change is on the horizon. People will stand up for their future.

And then Maya slipped back into being a teenager. I am looking forward to it, she said. I want to see all the pictures the day afterwards. It is going to be fun.

Maya was not the only young person who made a difference. At eleven years old, another girl named Emma was frustrated. Every book assigned in her fifth grade class featured white boys and their dogs. Five books in one year. None with characters who looked like her. Emma noticed this pattern was happening a lot. She became frustrated. As much as she liked those stories and she liked her teacher, Emma wanted to see herself. She wanted to see other people and their experiences.

Emma had three options. Option one: focus on herself, get herself more books, have her dad take her to the bookstore, and just be done. Option two: find some authors, beg them to write more books with characters like her. But Emma chose option three: change the system.

Emma launched a campaign to collect and donate one thousand books featuring girls like her as main characters. She called it the Thousand Books campaign. Emma exceeded her goal. She collected over twelve thousand books from around the world. The books were donated to communities that needed them. Emma even wrote her own book to help other kids become activists.

The most challenging thing about the campaign was learning about entitlement. At first, when Emma realized she was able to help people, she felt like a charity. She thought: I am giving the books to you, you should be grateful, you should all praise Emma. But that was not really something she wanted to embrace.

Emma stayed grounded. She did not want her friends to change their perception of her. Sometimes she did not tell her friends what she was up to. She did not lie to them. She just said she was going to work or she and her mom needed to do something.

Emma had a message for other kids. I would like to tell the girls who do not think they can make a difference, she said. Whoever put that idea in your head, you should tell them to stop. You can make a difference. As long as you firmly believe in whatever you are saying, your dreams and wishes will come true.

Frustration is fuel, Emma said. It can lead to the development of an innovative and useful idea. To take that first step of bravery is to really focus on finding your passions. Do not think that you have to wait to be great.

At eight years old, another girl named Sofia watched her mother cover her sister in ointment and plastic wrap. Her sister had mysterious rashes all over her body. Sofia and her family did not know what was causing it. They thought it was the detergent or something. Then they found out it was from the water. The tap water flowing from their faucets was contaminated with lead and other toxic chemicals.

When Sofia learned about the water crisis in her city, she wrote a letter to the President. She invited him to visit her city. My mom said chances are you will be too busy with more important things, Sofia wrote. But there are a lot of people coming on these buses. Even just a meeting from you or your wife would really lift people's spirits.

To everyone's surprise, the President wrote back. You are right that Presidents are often busy, he wrote. But the truth is, in our country, there is no more important title than citizen. Letters from kids like you are what make me so optimistic for the future.

The President came to Sofia's city. Sofia became a national voice for clean water. She continued to advocate for communities with contaminated water across the country.

One day, a water filtration company sent Sofia's family a filter. But the family ended up giving it away to an elderly neighbor who needed it more.

Now Sofia has expanded her advocacy work beyond her own city. She helps communities in other cities where water has also been contaminated. At a recent holiday drive, when asked for an interview, Sofia told her sister and aunt she did not want to talk to a reporter at that moment. She would rather be helping set up the toy drive.

One girl can change the world, Sofia said. Even big or small.

These three girls proved that young people can make a difference. Maya thought she was too small. Emma was frustrated with what she saw. Sofia saw her family suffering. But they all took action. They all made a difference. They all showed that you do not have to wait to be great. You can start right now. Your voice matters, even as a child. One person can spark a movement. Frustration is fuel for change. And most importantly: I thought I could not make a difference because I was too small. But I was wrong.

